
Excited for Black Panther? So are we. Which is why we're rolling out obsessive coverage with Black Panther Week.
The Marvel universe never lacked baes. But Black Panther raised the bar to untold heights, by introducing such an overwhelming abundance of marriage-quality characters that even the most hydrated among us could not stave off the thirst.
At any given time, there are anywhere from one to six baes on screen at the same time in Black Panther. That's a lot to handle. And the same question hangs over our heads throughout the movie: who is most bae? Which among this wide array of uniquely complex, multi-layered, and – of course – sexy characters reigns as queen or king of your heart?
SEE ALSO: Shuri from 'Black Panther' may be a princess, but she's queen of our hearts
The answer can say a lot about who you are, and we're here to guide you through discovering and understanding your ultimate Black Panther bae. (And if you're a teen with an age-appropriate crush on Shuri? Come right this way to our appreciation of Black Panther's best breakout character.)
The Queen

Also: Incredible taste in clothing.Image:  marvel studiosThis one's easy. Queen Ramonda exudes an unshakable regality that not even the loss of her husband, son, station, or stability of her nation could rattle. Those are Michelle Obama levels of strength and poise, combined with Angela Bassett's cheekbones – making Ramonda the bae you turn to when all else fails. Because when the world's crumbling, she's still there, believing in you like no one else ever has. 
And that's not to mention the Queen's serious mastery of the jewelry game. Yaaas, Kween.
The Protector

I'll cook you the best damn vegetarian meal you've ever hadImage:  marvel studiosM'Baku redefined the manspread, turning the inconsiderate habits of subway douchebags into one of the sexiest displays of power in the entire movie. When we first met M'Baku, he definitely wasn't topping our list of baes — beating his chest at T'Challa and even insulting Shuri's genius. But then we met him on his home turf, and realized all that ferocity was hiding a heart of gold, and show-stealing comedic timing.
So wear that manspread with pride M'Baku, as long as you leave enough room in your lap for us to snuggle up close.
The King

All hail the king of baesImage:  marvel studiosWho can deny the king? Especially one with as winning a smirk as T'Challa's? Granted, King T'Challa probably isn't the most fun bae at the party. He's the studious type, and carries the weight of Wakandan excellence on his shoulders. But he also wears that excellence like a crown. And he's definitely the bae who will treat you with the respect you deserve. Unlike his rival Killmonger, T'Challa's the type to run headlong into commitment, whether for his country or by sending you a text every night with at least 3 heart eye emojis.
And I mean, did you see that booty every time he's in the Black Panther suit? Watching him kick ass is like a shot of vibranium straight to the, um, heart. 
The Scumbag

I need a shower — together?Image:  Marvel studiosAlright, so Klaue's not an easy bae to justify. He's the definition of the most vile man with no redeeming qualities – and you can just kinda tell he stinks of gin and garlic all the time. But, you know, some of of us self-harm through our bae of choice. And it's okay if you're still at that phase when a dirtbag villain just does it for ya. We all know Klaue would be the one who'd take you to all the wildest parties, right?
And, look, we're not in the business of shaming anyone's bae choices. But if yours is Klaue, we do strongly recommend a self-esteem check. Because, honestly, you deserve better than this.
The Humanitarian

Girl, is your smile made of vibranium? Cause it's making us feel bulletproofImage:  marvel studiosNakia is the get-shit-done bae who challenges you to be a better person. No one's ever made a stubborn arm cross look quite as inviting and sexy, with her bright-eyed gaze that's enough to turn anyone into a deer in headlights. And – let's be real – without her, the king would be a goner. And we'd go down right there with him.
Nakia's the bae for anyone seeking a life-time in power coupling. But be prepared, because you will always pale in comparison to her conviction, passion, compassion, and worldliness. 
But, hey, we can't all be the Amal Clooney of the relationship, can we?
The Warrior

Shot through the heartImage:  marvel studiosOkoye is the bae of stealing hearts while spearing SUVs. Her appeal speaks for itself, ringing out with the authority and prowess of a fearless general willing to sacrifice everything for what she believes in. She's not afraid to call you out when you're making a fool of yourself in front of all of Wakanda, either, so she's perfect for those who need to check themselves every once in a while.
Oh – and you'll have to live with knowing the dog definitely loves her more, as demonstrated by the war rhinos in the final battle sequence.
Okoye is a woman married to the protection of her nation, so you'll always play second fiddle to her affections. But who's complaining?
The Outcast

Michael B. Joining Me In MatrimonyImage:  marvel studiosWhere do we even begin with Erik Killmonger? Yes, he's a killer. Yes, he throws Wakandan paradise into chaos. Yes, he's got some serious issues with women to work out. We don't want to gloss over exactly how unhealthy an IRL relationship with him would be. 
But there is no denying that Killmonger is undeniably compelling and relatable, emanating a raw power that attracts even the most stable-minded of us. Because, at the end of the day, Erik is the tragic bae. He appeals to those of us who see themselves in him: A man who might’ve had a good heart but, who’s been twisted by the pain of circumstance and loss. Those of us who love Killmonger see him as the small boy crying over his father's dead body, who then became the violent man who never wanted to feel that powerless and vulnerable again. 
Also, don't pretend the gold panther suit wasn't 100% cooler. We all know it is.
BONUS BAE: Kendrick Lamar

Okay, yes, Kendrick isn't technically in Black Panther – but he's basically an honorary Wakandan, providing the gorgeous sonic soundscape for the film. His musical career in itself often acts as a bridge between the African roots Wakanda represents, and the music of the African-American diaspora he was steeped in as a Compton native.
Kung Fu Kenny is a talent that only comes once in a generation. He's got the sensitivity of a poet, mixed with the swagger of an undeniable genius. And for that, he's our IRL Black Panther bae.

WATCH: 5 reasons why ‘Black Panther’ scored big with fans and critics


