
If there is currently a light in this world, it is everything to do with Black Panther and our world's collective thirst love for this cast. Lupita Nyong'o loves her costars as much as anyone else – in fact, she may be winning as a fan on Instagram.
On Monday, after Chadwick Boseman's Rolling Stone cover threatened to end us all, Nyong'o herself donned a black fur and statement necklace to recreate the cover. 
SEE ALSO: Shuri from 'Black Panther' may be a princess, but she's queen of our hearts



Imitation is the best form of flattery: @chadwickboseman I admire your quiet, confident, regal nature. You brought the wealth of all your knowledge, wisdom and physicality to T'Challa. You led us into the land of Wakanda without ego, without pretense, without fear. We reap the benefits now squarely because of your courage, your fierce dedication, your intense passion, and your grueling workout regimen. And I will never get enough of the way you say the word "because." We celebrate BREAKING BOX OFFICE RECORDS with @blackpanther for many reasons, but chief among them is because we had you as our king. Enkosi Kumkani!! And congratulations on your @rollingstone cover. From someone who loves you. #CoverCosplay My 📷 by @vernonfrancois  Chadwick's by Norman Jean Roy #BlackPanther #WakandaForever
A post shared by  Lupita Nyong'o (@lupitanyongo) on Feb 19, 2018 at 3:00pm PST



This isn't the first time Nyong'o has recreated a costar's photoshoot and then turned it into a heartfelt social media post about why she loves them. She did the same for Michael B. Jordan the week before Black Panther released.


Imitation is the best form of flattery: @michaelbjordan, I admire your focus, your ferocity, your vulnerability and even your struggle to accept compliments. You work harder than you show, and you give us a window into your beautiful soul. Happy Birthday, from someone who loves you! And congratulations on the awesome @britishgq cover! #CoverCosplay. My 📷 by @vernonfrancois
A post shared by  Lupita Nyong'o (@lupitanyongo) on Feb 9, 2018 at 9:05am PST

You know what this means: We need to give the whole cast epic photoshoots and magazine covers for Lupita to recreate! This is a challenge, and we have full faith she is up to it. 
Can Winston Duke be next?

WATCH: 5 reasons why ‘Black Panther’ scored big with fans and critics


