“I know it’s $100 million” for Disney, she says. “They’ll be fine.” She made the movie she wanted, about a multiracial world and the loss of a beloved parent. By MELENA RYZIKMARCH 1, 2018
 LOS ANGELES — “This is the house that ‘Wrinkle’ built,” the filmmaker Ava DuVernay said, giving a tour of a three-building complex — a large office around a bright courtyard, a two-story production facility and a light-filled event space, in a former paint factory here. It had been hers for about 24 hours, and already she had big plans for the décor. “We’re going to black woman-ify it,” she said. Ms. DuVernay had just put the finishing touches on the Disney movie that paid for it, “A Wrinkle in Time,” her adaptation of Madeleine L’Engle’s 1962 young adult sci-fi classic. It, too, had been black woman-ified. Her choices — in casting, tone and vision — have been as groundbreaking as the fact that she was directing it in the first place, the first woman of color at the helm of a $100 million studio tentpole. To hear her tell it, though, that milestone meant less to her than the opportunity to plant seeds, as she called it: cultivating, as she always has, a new way of looking at the world. She set out to “feminize” the movie, about a headstrong middle schooler — in this case, a biracial girl — who searches for her missing scientist father and saves the universe from encroaching evil. “When you say ‘feminizing,’ people think of softness in certain places, but I think of strength in other places,” where it’s normally overlooked, Ms. DuVernay, 45, said. Advertisement Her previous projects — like the civil rights drama “Selma” and the documentary “13TH,” about mass incarceration — and her company Array, which distributes films by underserved directors, have given her an activist platform that seems inseparable from her voice. In “Wrinkle,” she found a different range: Two weeks before preproduction, her beloved stepfather died, suddenly, and all at once the film became much more personal than she could have realized. “Wrinkle,” as anyone associated with it will tell you, is not an easy book to adapt. To rescue her father, Meg Murry, the physics-loving heroine — played by Storm Reid, now 14 — skips across galaxies with her little brother and a friend, encountering fantastical creatures and menacing beasts. But her trajectory is elliptical, and when she finally meets the bad guy, it’s a brain. “The villain is the darkness inside of you,” Ms. DuVernay said. “There’s no Darth Vader, no battle scene. Her action is progressive, and it’s internal.” To translate that to the screen, “it has to be lyrical, and intimate,” while also balancing a coming-of-age saga, an adventure tale and a story that has been beloved by middle-schoolers for more than half a century, Ms. DuVernay said. “That’s why I frigging did it, because it was hard.” Advertisement She had a notable pep squad, though: “I signed on because I thought it would be fun to have the experience with Ava,” said her friend Oprah Winfrey, who plays Mrs. Which, one of the kids’ guiding spirits. Reese Witherspoon, as the impatient Mrs. Whatsit, and Mindy Kaling, who quotes Rumi and OutKast as Mrs. Who, are the others; they were chosen partly for their offscreen acumen as producers reshaping Hollywood. It was Ms. DuVernay’s multicultural casting ideas — “Hamilton” was a reference — that helped sell her vision to Disney. “Once she presented it like that, it was one of those things where you couldn’t see the film any other way,” said Tendo Nagenda, the executive vice president for production for Walt Disney Studios, who sent Ms. DuVernay the script. “And little did she know that the desperation on my part to make sure she did it went to an all-time high.” Mr. Nagenda — who was raised in Los Angeles by a Ugandan father and a mother from Belize — added that he saw it as part of his mission at Disney to broaden the narrative. When he realized the film would be the first big-budget, sci-fi fantasy to feature a young girl of color as the lead, “it made me ask the question, why is that?” That “Wrinkle” is arriving on March 9, after Ryan Coogler’s “Black Panther,” another Disney film, has seemingly rewritten the cultural code of Hollywood, either sets it up for blockbuster success or makes any disappointing box office all the more bitter. There’s little chance it will be a phenomenon like “Black Panther,” Mr. Nagenda said, but that film — and the marketing lessons it taught — may unlock new theatergoers. “Audiences are responding to stories in which they feel they are represented and have a voice, and where the film itself is cognizant of that,” he said, “and I think our film has a lot of that.” Ms. DuVernay was careful to note that “Wrinkle” is not broad fare like a Marvel superhero movie; it’s intended for 8- to 12-year-olds. “I don’t know if I’ll ever do anything like this again,” she said. And so, given the chance, she put her stamp on it, using locations not far from where she grew up in Lynwood, Calif.: She shot in West Adams, a historic black district in Los Angeles; and Crenshaw High School, nearby, stands in for Meg’s James Baldwin Middle School in the movie. Mr. Coogler did something similar, setting part of “Black Panther” in Oakland, Calif., near his home. It’s a way, Ms. DuVernay said, of claiming a bit of identity in a studio film, a move that directors “who are privileged enough to see themselves in films all the time” may not need to make. In her hairstyle and clothes, Meg is based on Ms. DuVernay’s niece, a K-pop fan and skateboard-loving 13-year-old in Alabama. And a new character, a bully, was created out of the memories that Ms. DuVernay and Jennifer Lee, the screenwriter, had of their own childhood tormentors. “The best part of working with Ava, she wanted this to be an emotional adventure,” said Ms. Lee, the writer and co-director of “Frozen,” the animated megahit. Putting it on the page was almost therapeutic, she said: “There are always the heroes you wish you had as a kid, the ones you wish spoke to you, that say, ‘You’re more than you think you are.’” More than any character she’s created, Meg embodies that leap in confidence “with the most sincerity.” Advertisement Ms. Reid, the star, booked the part in eighth grade, having read the book in sixth. She kept a journal chronicling Meg’s feelings. She came as prepared, Ms. DuVernay said, as David Oyelowo, playing Martin Luther King Jr. in “Selma.” Ms. Reid, who has been acting since she was 3, understood the impact this role could have on other girls. “I do a feel a sense of responsibility, like that I have to keep them uplifted and I have to keep inspiring them,” she said. Ms. DuVernay thought of Meg as just a regular kid who finds her potential, but to Ms. Reid, she is a superhero: “She is an African-American girl that is smart, that is beautiful and that basically realizes that she is enough,” she said. With that realization, “she just taps into her superpowers to be able to save her dad, her brother and save the world.” The inclusive casting of Meg and the three guides got the attention, but Ms. DuVernay spent as much time obsessing over the role of Calvin, Meg’s friend, played by the Australian actor Levi Miller. She chose him, in part, she said, “because that was so powerful, to show a white boy following a black girl through the movie.” “I’ve never seen that,” Ms. DuVernay continued. “I mean, I have a crew of thousands of people, and it’s not lost on me that I have white men coming up to me all day long like, ‘What do I do?’ And in my early career, there’s some white men that have a problem with that, a problem with even asking me what to do, and taking my direction and believing that I know what I’m saying, because they have no context for even seeing it.” As the instigator of multiple diversity initiatives in Hollywood, Ms. DuVernay keeps giving them examples. Her ability to shape messages (she started out as a film publicist), her ease and clarion honesty in sharing complicated, personal truths, is rare.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Sitting in her new office, she crumpled quickly when the father-daughter part of “Wrinkle” came up. Ms. DuVernay’s stepfather, who helped raise her, died after a brief and sudden illness in 2016, as she was about to start work on the movie. It was as if he had disappeared without warning — just as Alex Murry, the father in “Wrinkle” (played by Chris Pine), does. “I felt that so deeply as I was making the film,” she said, “this girl who literally cannot wrap her mind around the fact that he’s gone, and the moment when they say he could still be here ——.” She broke off, crying. Her stepfather’s name was Murray Maye. All throughout production, when there was a script note or a lighting change for Mr. Pine’s character, she couldn’t bring herself to say Dr. Murry, as crew members did; she referred to him only as “the father.” “I feel like the film is looking for him in a way,” she said, in tears. “And that’s why I don’t care what anybody thinks about it. I don’t care. I don’t feel pressure about the whole first, blah blah blah. I know it’s $100 million for the studio. They’ll be fine. Ryan’s made sure of that for me.” (She and the “Black Panther” director are close.) “So, you know, this means a lot to me, and I know it’s going to mean something to some people. Some people will see it, see all the things we put in there.” Advertisement Ms. Winfrey did. “I grew up in an era where there was absolutely zero, minus, images” of girls like her in pop culture, she said. “So I do imagine, to be a brown-skinned girl of any race throughout the world, looking up on that screen and seeing Storm, I think that is a capital A, capital W, E, some, AWESOME, experience,” she added by phone. “I think this is going to be a wondrous marvel of an experience for girls that in the future they will just take for granted.” The entertainment press made much of the fact that Ms. DuVernay had never worked with special effects (which is rarely belabored when male directors make the same leap). But neither had Ms. Winfrey. “My first time being hung from the ceiling!” she said. She found getting up and getting down so nerve-racking that she asked the crew to just keep her rigged up. “The crew’s going to lunch, and they’re like, well we can’t leave you hanging! I go, ‘Oh yeah, you can!’” she said. (She stayed up there. Just picture it.) Ms. DuVernay, though, “was in her element,” Ms. Winfrey said, recalling that when she observed the huge cranes with the camera, “and there’s Ava, in her dreads and her sneakers and her vest and her jeans, surrounded by lots of big guys and lots of big machinery, saying, ‘Cut, stop, let’s take that again,’ it just would make my heart swell, that she had taken on something that was this enormous, and was managing it so well.” “Wrinkle” is a very girlie movie; at one point, a character is saved from a fall by a field of gossipy flowers. And Ms. DuVernay is warm and girlie, too — at our meeting, we talked about the joys and pitfalls of fake eyelashes; crying, she peeled hers off. “I like clothes, I like makeup, I like looking at pretty dresses,” she said. Onscreen, the Mrs. characters change costumes at every appearance: Ms. Winfrey described her look as “Beyoncé’s aunt from another planet.” And none of these glitter-tinged fantasies subtract from Ms. DuVernay’s own mission, that cultivation of new perspectives and realities. To her, “Selma” and “A Wrinkle in Time” share a foundational message: “Civil rights work and social justice work take imagination, to imagine a world that isn’t there, and you imagine that it can be there. And that’s the same thing that you do whenever you imagine and insert yourself in a future space, or in a space where you’ve been absent.” To imagine a world where a girl like Meg can fly was “super-emotional to me,” she said. “And then to be able to make it so, even on camera for a little while, for two hours — to change the world for that small amount of time, it’s very powerful. It’s addictive.” A version of this article appears in print on March 4, 2018, on Page AR14 of the New York edition with the headline: A Whole Lot Is Riding On This New ‘Wrinkle’.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 