Advertisement By BEN KENIGSBERGMARCH 1, 2018
 Our guide to film series and special screenings happening this weekend and in the week ahead. Plus, a Times Talks event. All our movie reviews are at nytimes.com/reviews/movies. ‘EL INDIO: THE FILMS OF EMILIO FERNÁNDEZ’ at the Museum of Modern Art (through March 13). In an appraisal of a Mexican noir retrospective at MoMA in 2015, J. Hoberman, writing in The New York Times, quoted the director Emilio Fernández as saying, “There is only one Mexico: the one I invented.” But MoMA’s new series on Mr. Fernández, perhaps the best-known filmmaker from what is often called the Golden Age of Mexican cinema, suggests that his onscreen Mexico was incredibly varied. “Enamorada” (Friday, and March 10 and 12) begins as a sort of western set during the Mexican revolution before turning into a variation on “The Taming of the Shrew” after a rebel leader (Pedro Armendáriz) falls for the daughter (María Félix) of a man he had arrested. In a darker register, “Salón México” (Sunday, and March 9 and 13) centers on a nightclub worker (Marga López) who struggles, Mildred Pierce-like, to save money for her younger sister. She finds the prospect of salvation in a sympathetic, widowed police officer (Miguel Inclán). Both films were shot by the great Gabriel Figueroa, Mr. Fernández’s frequent cinematographer.212-708-9400, moma.org ‘NEIGHBORING SCENES: NEW LATIN AMERICAN CINEMA’ at the Film Society of Lincoln Center (through March 4). The highlights of this annual series include “Gabriel and the Mountain” (Saturday), based on the true story of a Brazilian tourist — a friend of the director’s — which earned two prizes at last year’s Critics’ Week in Cannes, and “Lightning Falls Behind” (Sunday). Set in Costa Rica, it centers on a pair of teenage girls who discover a body in the trunk of a car.212-875-5601, filmlinc.org ‘WOMEN AT WORK: LABOR ACTIVISM’ at BAM Rose Cinemas (March 2-8). In the first part of what is planned as a recurring series on women in the labor force, BAM will focus on movies about union activity. The program opens with “Salt of the Earth” (Friday), an independent production that was controversial in 1954 for having been made by the director Herbert J. Biberman (one of the Hollywood 10) and other blacklisted filmmakers. Cast with a mix of professional and nonprofessional actors — and partly funded by a union that the Congress of Industrial Organizations had expelled for its politics — the film revolves around a New Mexico miners’ strike that requires unity not only among the workers, who begin the movie divided, but also between the miners and their wives, who start picketing in place of their husbands when a court forbids the miners from doing so. Other highlights include “Norma Rae” (Sunday), which won Sally Field her first Oscar, and “Silkwood” (Saturday), in which Meryl Streep plays the real-life organizer Karen Silkwood, who raised questions about the conditions at the nuclear processing plant where she worked.718-636-4100, bam.org AVA DUVERNAY at the Times Center (March 8, 7 p.m.). Spend an evening with this Oscar- and Golden Globe-nominated director, producer and screenwriter, as she discusses one of the most anticipated films of 2018, “A Wrinkle in Time” (in theaters on March 9). A formidable force in the fight for female voices and intersectionality in film and beyond, Ms. DuVernay was the first African-American women to be nominated for best director at the Academy Awards, and is the first woman of color to direct a film with a budget of over $100 million.timestalks.com A version of this article appears in print on March 2, 2018, on Page C24 of the New York edition.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 