Advertisement 

      By MARK CARO

MARCH 1, 2018
 
In time for the 90th Academy Awards on Sunday, test your knowledge.
Related Article
  At last year’s ceremony, Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway were handed the wrong envelope and mistakenly announced “La La Land” as best picture before it was corrected to “Moonlight.” Who previously was handed a wrong envelope and announced a wrong winner at the Oscars? Sammy Davis Jr. Katharine Hepburn Richard Burton Charo Speaking of unscripted moments, a streaker famously ran behind a host,  David Niven, as he was introducing the best picture presenter Elizabeth Taylor at the awards honoring 1973 films. What did Mr. Niven say after the interruption? “Ladies and gentlemen, ‘The Sting.’” “Oh, yes, they call him the streak. Look at that. Look at that.” “Isn’t it fascinating to think that probably the only laugh that man will ever get in his life is by stripping off and showing his shortcomings?” “The academy would like to apologize for that display of poor taste.” What did Taylor say immediately after taking the stage? “The five nominees for the Academy Award for best picture are …” “Thank you very much. How do you like my wardrobe?” “Oh, David, you’re a very funny man.” “That’s a pretty hard act to follow.” The married couple Emily V. Gordon and Kumail Nanjiani are nominated for their original screenplay for “The Big Sick.” Which of this year’s acting nominees used to be married to each other? Allison Janney and Willem Dafoe Lesley Manville and Gary Oldman Laurie Metcalf and Richard Jenkins  Meryl Streep and Daniel Day-Lewis Mary J. Blige is a double nominee for “Mudbound”: for supporting actress and original song (“Mighty River,” which she co-wrote with Raphael Saadiq and Taura Stinson). Who is the only person to win an acting and music-writing Oscar? Charlie Chaplin Liza Minnelli Prince Barbra Streisand Four of this year’s best-picture nominees feature a best actress nominee. What was the last best-picture winner that included a best actress nominee? “Birdman” “The Artist” “The King’s Speech” “Million Dollar Baby” “Get Out” is the rare horror film that’s a best-picture nominee. What was the first horror film to be nominated for best picture? “The Exorcist” “Psycho” “Rosemary’s Baby” “Wait Until Dark” Daniel Kaluuya is a best-actor nominee for “Get Out.” Who won an acting Oscar for a horror film? Linda Blair Ruth Gordon Audrey Hepburn Piper Laurie Who acts in three of this year’s best-picture nominees? Timothée Chalamet Tracy Letts Michael Stuhlbarg Bradley Whitford With his best-supporting-actor nomination for “All the Money in the World,” Christopher Plummer, 88, became the oldest-ever acting nominee. Who was the oldest winner of an acting Oscar? Jessica Tandy Henry Fonda Emmanuelle Riva Christopher Plummer Greta Gerwig (“Lady Bird”) is the fifth woman to ever be nominated for best director. Which female director has received more than one nomination in this category? Kathryn Bigelow Jane Campion Sofia Coppola None of them Advertisement 