Advertisement By JEANNETTE CATSOULISMARCH 1, 2018
 Even before their car mows down a stranger on a deserted road after a New Year’s Eve party, Lindsey and Jeff (Alex Essoe and Dylan McTee) are less than blissfully married. The fault lines are mainly financial — she’s the breadwinner and he’s a failed athlete reduced to drywalling their rambling fixer-upper — but they run deep. And when the near-fatal collision kicks loose a cascade of poor decisions and worse outcomes, the couple’s increasingly violent behavior blooms as much from hidden resentments as visible threats. A preview of the film. Such is the premise of Julius Ramsay’s first feature, “Midnighters,” a twisty thriller with horror-movie flourishes. Inspired by a 2002 article in The Los Angeles Times, the story (by the director’s brother Alston Ramsay, a former speechwriter who has worked for the Obama and Clinton administrations) swerves and double-clutches with daunting speed. When the accident victim turns out to have the couple’s address in his pocket and a shady connection to Lindsey’s freeloading younger sister, Hannah (Perla Haney-Jardine), a scary situation turns terrifying. As tables turn and turn again — nudged along by a wolfish impostor (Ward Horton) and some creative torturing — the movie allows scant time to ponder each new tack. Jeff and Lindsey’s marriage feels long past its sell-by date, and Hannah’s culpability in their predicament is only hazily defined. But if the action sometimes feels rushed, the director of photography, Alexander Alexandrov, maximizes his small budget and dimly lighted New England locations. Whether in basement, garage or on darkly wooded road, his images are clean and clear; only trust him, and he’ll show you which of these characters deserves to survive. 
Director
Julius Ramsay  
Writer
Alston Ramsay  
Stars
Alex Essoe,                                 Perla Haney-Jardine,                                 Dylan McTee,                                 Ward Horton,                                 Andrew Rothenberg  
Running Time
1h 34m
 
Genre
Thriller  Not rated. Running time: 1 hour 34 minutes. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 