Advertisement By A. O. SCOTTFEB. 28, 2018
 “Submission” tells a tale of the dangers of temptation, and some viewers may have trouble avoiding the temptation to treat it as an op-ed rather than a work of imagination. Even though it’s based on a book published 18 years ago, and draws inspiration from a film from 1930 (itself based on a 1905 novel), the timeliness of this movie, written and directed by Richard Levine, might strike you as downright unnerving. A middle-aged writer teaching at a liberal-arts college has sex with a student and is engulfed in a scandal that wrecks his marriage and his career. Is he villain or victim? Another predatory monster or a martyr to cultural sensitivities run amok? Is the way his story is told evidence of an anti-feminist backlash or a bold indictment of witch-hunting excess? As if in anticipation of heated, pre-hashtagged answers to these questions, Francine Prose, whose book “Blue Angel” is Mr. Levine’s source, recently published an essay in The Paris Review inviting viewers to concentrate on the specificity and complexity of the story rather than looking for an easy argument. That is good advice, though it may prove hard to follow, at least if you concentrate on the obvious themes of sex and power. But there is more to this chronicle of campus misbehavior than he said/she said, and more humor than indignation in the telling. At its best — which is to say when it follows the sharp angles and sly nuances of Ms. Prose’s prose most closely — “Submission” is less an erotic melodrama than a comedy of literary manners. The narrator is Ted Swenson (Stanley Tucci), the success of whose first book earned him a teaching job, a temporary gig that has lasted more than a decade. His wife, Sherrie (Kyra Sedgwick), works at the student health service. They have a grown daughter (Colby Minifie) who is not her father’s biggest fan. That status is claimed by Angela Argo (Addison Timlin), an undergraduate in Ted’s fiction workshop who asks him to take a look at a novel she is writing. A preview of the film. What happens next is tawdry, predictable, queasy-making and also frequently funny, though not for the Swensons. Mr. Tucci is the most unflappable of actors, which makes Ted’s inevitable and dramatic flapping all the more terrible and amusing to witness. He is a charming guy, to be sure, but also smug and self-pitying. Whether or not he entirely deserves what he eventually gets, his complacency and passivity set him up for a fall. Advertisement But “Submission” isn’t just his story. Angela is in many ways more interesting, even though, at the end, her motives are flattened in the interest of a narrative payoff. Ted is taken with her writing, and also with her naïve, admiring eagerness for his approval. She writes about sex with older men, in her novel and in an earlier book of poems, in a way that seems calculated to trigger inappropriate fantasies in the mind of a creatively frustrated, self-consciously aging teacher marooned in academia. Advertisement Ted is an easy mark, and hardly an unwilling participant in his own ruin. He is less pathetic than the professor played by Emil Jannings in Josef von Sternberg’s “The Blue Angel” (which serves as both a model for “Submission” and point of reference within it), and Angela is hardly a siren in the mold of Marlene Dietrich’s cabaret singer. But Angela does turn out to be amoral, manipulative and dishonest, traits that make her both a caricature of feminine guile and a promising fiction writer — perhaps more fully committed to the art than her vain, bumbling teacher. Unfortunately, Mr. Levine, directing his second feature after working mainly in television (on “Masters of Sex” and “Nip/Tuck,” among other series), is a lesser artist than Ms. Prose. “Submission” feels more like an act of devotion, or perhaps of submission, than a free-standing adaptation. The satire is cautious and the emotions restrained, so that what should be a swirl of lust, ambition, recrimination and bureaucratic absurdity rises only to genteel, nervous laughter and mild discomfort. The actors all do their best — Ms. Timlin manages the difficult trick of switching back and forth between innocence and its opposite — but a crucial element of intensity is missing. By the end, the stakes seem trivial, even though families and livelihoods are in play and big ideas hover in the background. Can a movie be provocatively timid? Clumsy and coy at the same time? The more you think about “Submission,” the less relevant it looks. Which may represent a pyrrhic kind of vindication. There’s nothing here that’s really worth arguing about. 
Director
Richard Levine  
Writers
Richard Levine,                                 Francine Prose (novel)  
Stars
Stanley Tucci,                                 Addison Timlin,                                 Kyra Sedgwick,                                 Janeane Garofalo,                                 Ritchie Coster  
Running Time
1h 46m
 
Genre
Drama  SubmissionNot rated. Running time: 1 hour 37 minutes. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 