Advertisement By GLENN KENNYFEB. 28, 2018
 A tone of stark austerity seems to have become the default mode of contemporary films about drug addiction (Josh and Bennie Safdie’s excellent 2015 film “Heaven Knows What” being a notable exception). This holds for “Werewolf,” a Canadian film written and directed by Ashley McKenzie. But the particulars of Ms. McKenzie’s approach, and the excellent work of her lead actors, bring new value to the mode. Andrew Gillis and Bhreagh MacNeil play Blaise and Vanessa, two addicts on a methadone program. Young, dirt-poor and without any significant options for moving their lives forward, they trudge around the small town they’re stuck in, dragging a lawn mower with them. Entrepreneurship, such as it is, subsists in their offering to cut neighborhood lawns for money. And of course, eventually the lawn mower breaks. A preview of the film. Ms. McKenzie keeps her camera close to her characters, with shots that are meticulously framed without being precious about it. Generally, the camera moves with the characters when it moves at all, and the film’s cutting is clean. (Ms. McKenzie edited the film; the cinematography is by Scott Moore.) The movie has a quietly startling moment breaking out of its style, in a scene in which Blaise, back to getting high, experiences a hallucination while a friend plays video games. The performers don’t seem like they’re acting at all, which contributes to the film’s unsettling power. The elliptical narrative structure articulates a sad truth of the addict’s life concerning both the challenge and the tedium of making it through to the next fix. 
Director
Ashley McKenzie  
Writer
Ashley McKenzie  
Stars
Andrew Gillis,                                 Kyle M. Hamilton,                                 Bhreagh MacNeil  
Running Time
1h 20m
 
Genre
Drama  Not rated. Running time: 1 hour 20 minutes. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. When you purchase a ticket for an independently reviewed film through our site, we earn an affiliate commission. But our primary goal is that this feature adds value to your reading experience. Go to Home Page » 