by Margaret Lyons March 1, 2018 No matter how much free time you have this weekend, we have TV recommendations for you. Come back every Friday for new suggestions from our TV critic on what to watch. No matter how much free time you have this weekend, we have TV recommendations for you. Come back every Friday for new suggestions from our TV critic on what to watch. Comedy Central’s devilishly bleak show about a miserable workplace is a surprisingly inventive spin on the lousy-office format: It’s wildly filthy on occasion, but it’s also subtly poetic and surreal. At one point our listless hero, Matt (Matt Ingebretson), encounters a ghost and asks her about the afterlife. “There’s no greener grass,” she says. “There’s just more grass.” It’s also unabashed in its criticisms of corporate culture: At a retreat, employees giddily volunteer to be waterboarded. If you like the perceptive bitterness and impressive cameos of “BoJack Horseman,” try this. Comedy Central’s devilishly bleak show about a miserable workplace is a surprisingly inventive spin on the lousy-office format: It’s wildly filthy on occasion, but it’s also subtly poetic and surreal. At one point our listless hero, Matt (Matt Ingebretson), encounters a ghost and asks her about the afterlife. “There’s no greener grass,” she says. “There’s just more grass.” It’s also unabashed in its criticisms of corporate culture: At a retreat, employees giddily volunteer to be waterboarded. If you like the perceptive bitterness and impressive cameos of “BoJack Horseman,” try this. The first three episodes are currently available on CC.com without a cable login, and all eight extant episodes are available with one; new episodes air Wednesdays on Comedy Central for the next two weeks. The first three episodes are currently available on CC.com without a cable login, and all eight extant episodes are available with one; new episodes air Wednesdays on Comedy Central for the next two weeks. The 90th Annual Academy Awards When to watch: Sunday at 8 p.m., on ABC. The 90th Annual Academy Awards When to watch: Sunday at 8 p.m., on ABC. Jimmy Kimmel hosts this year’s Oscars. Even though the Golden Globes ceremony was already positioned as a vehicle for the Time’s Up campaign, the Oscars can’t quite get away with pretending everything is hunky-dory now in Hollywoodland. Expect more politically pointed speeches than usual amid the glitz and hubbub. Also expect musical performances from Mary J. Blige, Andra Day with Common, Sufjan Stevens, Gael García Bernal and others. (And if you want to follow along with the Times, we’ll be doing a live chat during the ceremony, with Melena Ryzik, Wesley Morris and Jessica Bennett.) Jimmy Kimmel hosts this year’s Oscars. Even though the Golden Globes ceremony was already positioned as a vehicle for the Time’s Up campaign, the Oscars can’t quite get away with pretending everything is hunky-dory now in Hollywoodland. Expect more politically pointed speeches than usual amid the glitz and hubbub. Also expect musical performances from Mary J. Blige, Andra Day with Common, Sufjan Stevens, Gael García Bernal and others. (And if you want to follow along with the Times, we’ll be doing a live chat during the ceremony, with Melena Ryzik, Wesley Morris and Jessica Bennett.) This Spanish import is set within the Ministry of Time, where special operatives from different eras are put on squads together and then are dispatched through time to keep humanity on track and preserve Spain’s history. Amelia (Aura Garrido) is the only female student in her college class in 1880, when she’s recruited into the agency and teams with a modern-day firefighter and a soldier from the 1500s. The show is a lot of fun, and if it kind of reminds you of NBC’s “Timeless,” you’re not alone: That show’s production company filed a lawsuit saying as much. This Spanish import is set within the Ministry of Time, where special operatives from different eras are put on squads together and then are dispatched through time to keep humanity on track and preserve Spain’s history. Amelia (Aura Garrido) is the only female student in her college class in 1880, when she’s recruited into the agency and teams with a modern-day firefighter and a soldier from the 1500s. The show is a lot of fun, and if it kind of reminds you of NBC’s “Timeless,” you’re not alone: That show’s production company filed a lawsuit saying as much. Read our FAQs or contact us to let us know how we’re doing. 