by Watching Staff March 1, 2018 Watching is The New York Times’s TV and film recommendation website. Sign up for our thrice-weekly newsletter here. Watching is The New York Times’s TV and film recommendation website. Sign up for our thrice-weekly newsletter here. Among the nine best-picture Oscar nominees this year, we have three based on real events, two that are explicitly topical, two coming-of-age tales and two very unusual love stories. All the films have been informed — directly or indirectly — by other movies throughout history. Many of those are available to stream. Among the nine best-picture Oscar nominees this year, we have three based on real events, two that are explicitly topical, two coming-of-age tales and two very unusual love stories. All the films have been informed — directly or indirectly — by other movies throughout history. Many of those are available to stream. Fans of independent and international cinema may recognize some of the cinematic traditions to which this film belongs: the European poeticism, the thematic daring, the suffusion of vintage sound and color. Here are several wonderful films for context. Fans of independent and international cinema may recognize some of the cinematic traditions to which this film belongs: the European poeticism, the thematic daring, the suffusion of vintage sound and color. Here are several wonderful films for context. “Call Me by Your Name” is set in Italy in 1983; this comedy-drama from 1999 by David Moreton is set in Sandusky, Ohio, in 1984, and similarly concerns a teenage boy’s evolving understanding of his sexual identity. But the two films don’t share only those surface similarities; like Elio, the young protagonist in “Call Me,” Eric, from “Seventeen,” finds himself unexpectedly stirred by a smooth, confident older man, which complicates his dalliance with a kind young woman — who, herself, is only starting to find her way and is doomed for heartbreak. But most of all, “Seventeen” beautifully captures the feeling of being young, aching for love and discovering its complications and implications.— “Call Me by Your Name” is set in Italy in 1983; this comedy-drama from 1999 by David Moreton is set in Sandusky, Ohio, in 1984, and similarly concerns a teenage boy’s evolving understanding of his sexual identity. But the two films don’t share only those surface similarities; like Elio, the young protagonist in “Call Me,” Eric, from “Seventeen,” finds himself unexpectedly stirred by a smooth, confident older man, which complicates his dalliance with a kind young woman — who, herself, is only starting to find her way and is doomed for heartbreak. But most of all, “Seventeen” beautifully captures the feeling of being young, aching for love and discovering its complications and implications.— The novel “Call Me by Your Name” is set in 1987, but the film switches that date to 1983 — the year the French filmmaker Maurice Pialat released this challenging drama. Guadagnino, who is Italian, has pinpointed “Amours” as one of his primary influences, calling it the one coming-of-age movie “that was dear to me,” because Pialat’s films “avoid the traps of a narrative and to be at the center of his characters.” In “Amour,” Pialat is at the center of Suzanne (Sandrine Bonnaire), a teenage girl whose sexual awakening is a good deal more tempestuous than Elio’s (and with a significant divergence in familial support). But the films share a freewheeling, languorous vibe, propelled less by plot and structure than by mood and emotion. The novel “Call Me by Your Name” is set in 1987, but the film switches that date to 1983 — the year the French filmmaker Maurice Pialat released this challenging drama. Guadagnino, who is Italian, has pinpointed “Amours” as one of his primary influences, calling it the one coming-of-age movie “that was dear to me,” because Pialat’s films “avoid the traps of a narrative and to be at the center of his characters.” In “Amour,” Pialat is at the center of Suzanne (Sandrine Bonnaire), a teenage girl whose sexual awakening is a good deal more tempestuous than Elio’s (and with a significant divergence in familial support). But the films share a freewheeling, languorous vibe, propelled less by plot and structure than by mood and emotion. Click to read about four other complementary movies. Click to read about four other complementary movies. Through a wondrous serendipity, Joe Wright’s “Darkest Hour” appeared in theaters a few months after Christopher Nolan’s “Dunkirk,” serving as a natural companion piece. “Dunkirk” is only the most obvious film to compare it with, though, and their similarities end mostly with the subject matter. If you liked “Darkest Hour,” these streamable films provide great complements as well. Through a wondrous serendipity, Joe Wright’s “Darkest Hour” appeared in theaters a few months after Christopher Nolan’s “Dunkirk,” serving as a natural companion piece. “Dunkirk” is only the most obvious film to compare it with, though, and their similarities end mostly with the subject matter. If you liked “Darkest Hour,” these streamable films provide great complements as well. The worlds of “Darkest Hour” and Wright’s 2007 drama, “Atonement,” intersect on the beaches of Dunkirk, which the earlier film renders in one celebrated tracking shot that captures the chaos, misery, surreality and defiant hope of British soldiers awaiting an evacuation that may never come. The scene pays homage to the nationalist grit expressed through Churchill’s speech to the House of Commons — “We shall go on to the end,” and so on — but it also keys into the experience of an individual soldier (James McAvoy), who can think only about getting back to the woman he loves (Keira Knightley). Based the novel by Ian McEwan, “Atonement” has the elegance and sweep of a classic wartime romance, in which the emotion intensifies with each falling bomb. But it’s also a literate period piece about the tragic ramifications of one falsely witnessed moment.— The worlds of “Darkest Hour” and Wright’s 2007 drama, “Atonement,” intersect on the beaches of Dunkirk, which the earlier film renders in one celebrated tracking shot that captures the chaos, misery, surreality and defiant hope of British soldiers awaiting an evacuation that may never come. The scene pays homage to the nationalist grit expressed through Churchill’s speech to the House of Commons — “We shall go on to the end,” and so on — but it also keys into the experience of an individual soldier (James McAvoy), who can think only about getting back to the woman he loves (Keira Knightley). Based the novel by Ian McEwan, “Atonement” has the elegance and sweep of a classic wartime romance, in which the emotion intensifies with each falling bomb. But it’s also a literate period piece about the tragic ramifications of one falsely witnessed moment.— “Darkest Hour” opens as Churchill succeeds Neville Chamberlain as British prime minister, amid fierce debate over whether to seek a treaty with Nazi Germany. Produced for HBO and the BBC, “The Gathering Storm” catches up with Churchill six years earlier, when he was plugging away on a biography on the Duke of Marlborough at his home in Chartwell, in rural Kent. “Darkest Hour” opens as Churchill succeeds Neville Chamberlain as British prime minister, amid fierce debate over whether to seek a treaty with Nazi Germany. Produced for HBO and the BBC, “The Gathering Storm” catches up with Churchill six years earlier, when he was plugging away on a biography on the Duke of Marlborough at his home in Chartwell, in rural Kent. As the title suggests, the film is about Churchill’s growing alarm over German rearmament under Adolf Hitler and his difficult return to relevance, aided by government officials like Ralph Wigram (Linus Roache) who share his concerns and reject the appeasement policies of Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin (Derek Jacobi). Albert Finney won an Emmy for his dyspeptic Churchill — as did Brendan Gleeson’s Churchill in the lesser 2009 sequel, “Into the Storm”— and Vanessa Redgrave lends fine support as his wife, Clemmie, whose faith in her husband sometimes wavers dramatically. As the title suggests, the film is about Churchill’s growing alarm over German rearmament under Adolf Hitler and his difficult return to relevance, aided by government officials like Ralph Wigram (Linus Roache) who share his concerns and reject the appeasement policies of Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin (Derek Jacobi). Albert Finney won an Emmy for his dyspeptic Churchill — as did Brendan Gleeson’s Churchill in the lesser 2009 sequel, “Into the Storm”— and Vanessa Redgrave lends fine support as his wife, Clemmie, whose faith in her husband sometimes wavers dramatically. Click to read about four other complementary movies. Click to read about four other complementary movies. Christopher Nolan’s World War II film “Dunkirk” is one of the most critically lauded of this year’s Academy Awards nominees, racking up nominations not only for best picture but also for cinematography, editing, production design and director (Nolan’s first). If you value “Dunkirk” as much as the Academy does, here are a few streamable films that are bound to resonate, whether in story or aesthetic. Christopher Nolan’s World War II film “Dunkirk” is one of the most critically lauded of this year’s Academy Awards nominees, racking up nominations not only for best picture but also for cinematography, editing, production design and director (Nolan’s first). If you value “Dunkirk” as much as the Academy does, here are a few streamable films that are bound to resonate, whether in story or aesthetic. Nolan’s “Dunkirk” is not a remake of this 1958 British film from director Leslie Norman, though it bears the same title and portrays the same event. Norman’s version is a far more conventional telling of the Dunkirk evacuation, done in a traditional style, with none of the shifting time frames of Nolan’s interpretation. It is, however, a tightly crafted, hard-nosed war picture, told mostly through the eyes of two protagonists: one a British soldier (John Mills) awaiting evacuation from Dunkirk beach, the other a British reporter (Bernard Lee), who covers the events and then leads the charge of civilian boats assisting the rescue. It may not be as formally flamboyant as Nolan’s telling, but it’s a brilliant antecedent.— Nolan’s “Dunkirk” is not a remake of this 1958 British film from director Leslie Norman, though it bears the same title and portrays the same event. Norman’s version is a far more conventional telling of the Dunkirk evacuation, done in a traditional style, with none of the shifting time frames of Nolan’s interpretation. It is, however, a tightly crafted, hard-nosed war picture, told mostly through the eyes of two protagonists: one a British soldier (John Mills) awaiting evacuation from Dunkirk beach, the other a British reporter (Bernard Lee), who covers the events and then leads the charge of civilian boats assisting the rescue. It may not be as formally flamboyant as Nolan’s telling, but it’s a brilliant antecedent.— Barely a month after the Dunkirk Evacuation, the Royal Air Force’s extended defense of Britain from German Luftwaffe began. That campaign, which lasted nearly four months, is the basis of this 1969 war film from director Guy Hamilton. Hamilton was best known for such classic Bond films as “Goldfinger” and “Diamonds Are Forever,” and his work here is less winking but just as technically impressive; the large-scale flying and battle sequences are spectacular, their scale, scope and intensity not unlike those in Nolan’s “Dunkirk.” Barely a month after the Dunkirk Evacuation, the Royal Air Force’s extended defense of Britain from German Luftwaffe began. That campaign, which lasted nearly four months, is the basis of this 1969 war film from director Guy Hamilton. Hamilton was best known for such classic Bond films as “Goldfinger” and “Diamonds Are Forever,” and his work here is less winking but just as technically impressive; the large-scale flying and battle sequences are spectacular, their scale, scope and intensity not unlike those in Nolan’s “Dunkirk.” But Hamilton pays just as much attention to his human interactions. The all-star cast (which includes Laurence Olivier, Michael Caine, Trevor Howard, Christopher Plummer, Susannah York and Robert Shaw) shines, and the film takes great pains to include the perspective of German soldiers and officers, rather than paint them as background cartoon villains. That choice lends “Battle of Britain” a moral complexity that helps it transcend the usual war movie conventions — much as “Dunkirk” does. But Hamilton pays just as much attention to his human interactions. The all-star cast (which includes Laurence Olivier, Michael Caine, Trevor Howard, Christopher Plummer, Susannah York and Robert Shaw) shines, and the film takes great pains to include the perspective of German soldiers and officers, rather than paint them as background cartoon villains. That choice lends “Battle of Britain” a moral complexity that helps it transcend the usual war movie conventions — much as “Dunkirk” does. Click here to read about four other complementary movies. Click here to read about four other complementary movies. Ahead of this film’s release last year, director Jordan Peele programmed a retrospective in Brooklyn titled “The Art of the Social Thriller,” which offered fans rare and direct insight into the films that influenced him. Here’s where to stream some of those films now. Ahead of this film’s release last year, director Jordan Peele programmed a retrospective in Brooklyn titled “The Art of the Social Thriller,” which offered fans rare and direct insight into the films that influenced him. Here’s where to stream some of those films now. The low-budget 1968 movie that launched zombies into the horror movie pantheon tells the story of a group of people holed up in a house — including a single black protagonist (Duane Jones) — who try to fend off a zombie attack. Peele told The New York Times that the movie resonated with him in an extra way. “You could write an interesting essay about how the lead in ‘Night of the Living Dead’ is a man living in fear every day,” he said, “so this is a challenge he is more equipped to take on than the white women living in the house.”— The low-budget 1968 movie that launched zombies into the horror movie pantheon tells the story of a group of people holed up in a house — including a single black protagonist (Duane Jones) — who try to fend off a zombie attack. Peele told The New York Times that the movie resonated with him in an extra way. “You could write an interesting essay about how the lead in ‘Night of the Living Dead’ is a man living in fear every day,” he said, “so this is a challenge he is more equipped to take on than the white women living in the house.”— A Civil Rights Era film with a social message, “Guess Who’s Coming to Dinner” follows a young doctor (Sidney Poitier) as he meets his white girlfriend’s liberal parents (Katharine Hepburn and Spencer Tracy) for the first time. Peele explained to GQ how the movie, released in 1967, influenced the awkward scenes in his film. One of the great things about “Guess Who’s Coming to Dinner,” he noted, was that “anybody can relate to is the uncomfortableness of meeting your in-laws for the first time and being at a party where you’re the outsider. A Civil Rights Era film with a social message, “Guess Who’s Coming to Dinner” follows a young doctor (Sidney Poitier) as he meets his white girlfriend’s liberal parents (Katharine Hepburn and Spencer Tracy) for the first time. Peele explained to GQ how the movie, released in 1967, influenced the awkward scenes in his film. One of the great things about “Guess Who’s Coming to Dinner,” he noted, was that “anybody can relate to is the uncomfortableness of meeting your in-laws for the first time and being at a party where you’re the outsider. “So the layer of race that enriches and complicates that tension” in “Get Out,” he continued, “becomes relatable. It’s made to be an inclusive movie.” “So the layer of race that enriches and complicates that tension” in “Get Out,” he continued, “becomes relatable. It’s made to be an inclusive movie.” Click to read about five other complementary movies. Click to read about five other complementary movies. “Lady Bird” is up for five Academy Awards, including best picture, best actress (for Saoirse Ronan) and best director for Gerwig — only the fifth time in Oscar history that a female director has earned an Oscar nomination. As refreshing as “Lady Bird” is, the film comes from a long line of movies about headstrong young women. “Lady Bird” is up for five Academy Awards, including best picture, best actress (for Saoirse Ronan) and best director for Gerwig — only the fifth time in Oscar history that a female director has earned an Oscar nomination. As refreshing as “Lady Bird” is, the film comes from a long line of movies about headstrong young women. The most important love story in “Lady Bird” is the tense relationship between Christine, who calls herself Lady Bird, and her mother, Marion (Laurie Metcalf, who was nominated for best supporting actress). Likewise in “The Edge of Seventeen,” it’s the troubled relationship between Nadine (Hailee Steinfeld) and her mom (Kyra Sedgwick). As in “Lady Bird,” the drama doesn’t stop at home, as Nadine struggles through an also awkward adolescent romance and a broken friendship. Meanwhile, her mother either can’t or refuses to understand her daughter’s behavior: The two of them fight, bicker and snipe at each other in almost every shared moment. In one scene, Nadine even steals her mom’s car to escape an argument. Luckily, that’s not the last word in a movie full of warm supporting characters like her caring teacher (Woody Harrelson) and a cute boyfriend (Hayden Szeto).— The most important love story in “Lady Bird” is the tense relationship between Christine, who calls herself Lady Bird, and her mother, Marion (Laurie Metcalf, who was nominated for best supporting actress). Likewise in “The Edge of Seventeen,” it’s the troubled relationship between Nadine (Hailee Steinfeld) and her mom (Kyra Sedgwick). As in “Lady Bird,” the drama doesn’t stop at home, as Nadine struggles through an also awkward adolescent romance and a broken friendship. Meanwhile, her mother either can’t or refuses to understand her daughter’s behavior: The two of them fight, bicker and snipe at each other in almost every shared moment. In one scene, Nadine even steals her mom’s car to escape an argument. Luckily, that’s not the last word in a movie full of warm supporting characters like her caring teacher (Woody Harrelson) and a cute boyfriend (Hayden Szeto).— Nothing says growing up like rebelling against your parents, and in the case of “Pariah,” rebellion is practically a necessity. Alike (Adepero Oduye) is a 17-year-old black poet discovering her sexuality. Her much more conservative mother pushes Alike to hang out with a friend from church, with whom Alike finds more comfort in her identity as a lesbian. Despite her tenuous relationship with her mom, Alike bonds easily with her dad, who’s much more lenient about her choice to wear men’s clothes or spend time with friends her mom does not like. Although, he writes off Alike’s behavior as a phase instead of her sexual identity, which causes problems later. Dee Rees, who more recently directed the Oscar-nominated “Mudbound,” made her narrative debut with this powerful drama about family and acceptance. Nothing says growing up like rebelling against your parents, and in the case of “Pariah,” rebellion is practically a necessity. Alike (Adepero Oduye) is a 17-year-old black poet discovering her sexuality. Her much more conservative mother pushes Alike to hang out with a friend from church, with whom Alike finds more comfort in her identity as a lesbian. Despite her tenuous relationship with her mom, Alike bonds easily with her dad, who’s much more lenient about her choice to wear men’s clothes or spend time with friends her mom does not like. Although, he writes off Alike’s behavior as a phase instead of her sexual identity, which causes problems later. Dee Rees, who more recently directed the Oscar-nominated “Mudbound,” made her narrative debut with this powerful drama about family and acceptance. Click to read about four other complementary movies. Click to read about four other complementary movies. A focused, meticulously art-directed romantic drama set in postwar England, “Phantom Thread” matches the pathologically fastidious couturier Reynolds Woodcock (Daniel Day-Lewis) with a young woman known only as Alma (Vicky Krieps), a canny waitress of mysterious origin. Satisfy your hunger for more high-fashion pathos and difficult love with one of these streamable films. A focused, meticulously art-directed romantic drama set in postwar England, “Phantom Thread” matches the pathologically fastidious couturier Reynolds Woodcock (Daniel Day-Lewis) with a young woman known only as Alma (Vicky Krieps), a canny waitress of mysterious origin. Satisfy your hunger for more high-fashion pathos and difficult love with one of these streamable films. “Phantom Thread” is, essentially, the tale of a romance with very unusual power dynamics. This kind of strange, obsessive love story is a specialty of the European art house, particularly of the French actress Isabelle Huppert, who brings crucial specificity to the complicated masochists she plays in movies like “The Piano Teacher” and “Elle.” Less famous but equally captivating is her performance in “Abuse of Weakness,” a 2014 film from the French auteur Catherine Breillat. Huppert plays a director recovering from a stroke, who casts a famous con man (Kool Shen) in her new project, gets sucked into his mind games. The film is based on a similar event from Breillat’s life, and the chemistry between the leads sells its story of a smart woman who gets scammed by a man she always knew was a scammer.— “Phantom Thread” is, essentially, the tale of a romance with very unusual power dynamics. This kind of strange, obsessive love story is a specialty of the European art house, particularly of the French actress Isabelle Huppert, who brings crucial specificity to the complicated masochists she plays in movies like “The Piano Teacher” and “Elle.” Less famous but equally captivating is her performance in “Abuse of Weakness,” a 2014 film from the French auteur Catherine Breillat. Huppert plays a director recovering from a stroke, who casts a famous con man (Kool Shen) in her new project, gets sucked into his mind games. The film is based on a similar event from Breillat’s life, and the chemistry between the leads sells its story of a smart woman who gets scammed by a man she always knew was a scammer.— “We decided early on that Reynolds Woodcock wasn’t the greatest couturier in the world,” Mark Bridges, who designed the Oscar-nominated costumes for “Phantom Thread,” explained to Vogue. But you don’t have to love his every creation to appreciate the film’s stunning recreation of his atelier and the psychologically rich portraits of his wealthy clients. If the House of Woodcock’s all-night sewing marathons and enervating fashion shows piqued your curiosity, consider educating yourself about contemporary couture with this behind-the-scenes documentary that follows Raf Simons’s frenzied first season as the artistic director of Dior. “We decided early on that Reynolds Woodcock wasn’t the greatest couturier in the world,” Mark Bridges, who designed the Oscar-nominated costumes for “Phantom Thread,” explained to Vogue. But you don’t have to love his every creation to appreciate the film’s stunning recreation of his atelier and the psychologically rich portraits of his wealthy clients. If the House of Woodcock’s all-night sewing marathons and enervating fashion shows piqued your curiosity, consider educating yourself about contemporary couture with this behind-the-scenes documentary that follows Raf Simons’s frenzied first season as the artistic director of Dior. Click to read about five other complementary movies. Click to read about five other complementary movies. Historical docudrama, timely political allegory, quicksilver newspaper comedy — Steven Spielberg’s “The Post” is a movie that has it all, all at once. And the intersection of germane history and snappy newsroom banter offers up plenty of comparisons for related viewing. Historical docudrama, timely political allegory, quicksilver newspaper comedy — Steven Spielberg’s “The Post” is a movie that has it all, all at once. And the intersection of germane history and snappy newsroom banter offers up plenty of comparisons for related viewing. “The Post” is mostly concerned with the “how” and “why” of the Pentagon Papers, the massive study detailing the history of American involvement in Vietnam. Spielberg’s film does, however, delve briefly into the “what” of the document dump in the film’s early passages. If you want more about the study’s contents, you can’t do better than this Peabody Award-winning and Oscar-nominated feature by Judie Ehrlich and Rick Goldsmith, which takes the form of a documentary but runs with the speed and intrigue of a good political thriller. Ehrlich and Goldsmith aren’t only preoccupied with the specifics of the Papers (though they certainly cover those bases). Their film also has the insight and sensitivity of a character study, probing the personal and political journey of Mr. Ellsberg, whose deep dive into the Vietnam conflict turned him from a hawk into an antiwar activist.— “The Post” is mostly concerned with the “how” and “why” of the Pentagon Papers, the massive study detailing the history of American involvement in Vietnam. Spielberg’s film does, however, delve briefly into the “what” of the document dump in the film’s early passages. If you want more about the study’s contents, you can’t do better than this Peabody Award-winning and Oscar-nominated feature by Judie Ehrlich and Rick Goldsmith, which takes the form of a documentary but runs with the speed and intrigue of a good political thriller. Ehrlich and Goldsmith aren’t only preoccupied with the specifics of the Papers (though they certainly cover those bases). Their film also has the insight and sensitivity of a character study, probing the personal and political journey of Mr. Ellsberg, whose deep dive into the Vietnam conflict turned him from a hawk into an antiwar activist.— “The Post” fits the tradition of the “newspaper picture” best defined by Pauline Kael: “a tough modern talkie,” in most cases “a melodrama with crime and political corruption and suspense and comedy and romance” — often with snappy titles like “Scandal Sheet” and “Libeled Lady.” And the best of those movies, or at least their screwball comedy subset, is this 1940 barnburner from Howard Hawks. A gender-swapped rewrite of the earlier film and play “The Front Page,” it features Cary Grant in top form as a ruthless newspaper editor who will tell any fib and pull any string to get his star reporter (the peerless Rosalind Russell), who is also his ex-wife, to cover one last story rather than quit her job and disappear with her fiancé (a wonderfully dopey Ralph Bellamy). Grant and Russell’s mile-a-minute, love-hate banter is priceless, but don’t undervalue the snappy, wiseacre dialogue of the supporting players, a crew of seen-it-all newsmen who talk shop and swap lingo with growling, offhand wit. “The Post” fits the tradition of the “newspaper picture” best defined by Pauline Kael: “a tough modern talkie,” in most cases “a melodrama with crime and political corruption and suspense and comedy and romance” — often with snappy titles like “Scandal Sheet” and “Libeled Lady.” And the best of those movies, or at least their screwball comedy subset, is this 1940 barnburner from Howard Hawks. A gender-swapped rewrite of the earlier film and play “The Front Page,” it features Cary Grant in top form as a ruthless newspaper editor who will tell any fib and pull any string to get his star reporter (the peerless Rosalind Russell), who is also his ex-wife, to cover one last story rather than quit her job and disappear with her fiancé (a wonderfully dopey Ralph Bellamy). Grant and Russell’s mile-a-minute, love-hate banter is priceless, but don’t undervalue the snappy, wiseacre dialogue of the supporting players, a crew of seen-it-all newsmen who talk shop and swap lingo with growling, offhand wit. Click to read about five other complementary movies. Click to read about five other complementary movies. Guillermo del Toro isn’t simply one of our most imaginative and innovative filmmakers; he’s also an enthusiastic film historian and collector, so his films often function as both absorbing narratives and carefully curated exhibitions. These are some of the likely influences for his latest film, which earned a season-high 13 Academy Award nominations. Guillermo del Toro isn’t simply one of our most imaginative and innovative filmmakers; he’s also an enthusiastic film historian and collector, so his films often function as both absorbing narratives and carefully curated exhibitions. These are some of the likely influences for his latest film, which earned a season-high 13 Academy Award nominations. The most obvious influence on “The Shape of Water” is this 1954 monster movie (originally released in 3D), from which del Toro seems to borrow heaviest in creating the look of his aquatic monster — which his characters call the Asset (Doug Jones). Advances in technology allow him to add a few notable bells and whistles, including moving gills and lights under his merman’s skin, but the basic shape and face of the Asset is unmistakably close to the Gill Man’s from “Black Lagoon.” (The filmmaker said this about the Gill Man: “I can only tell you I drew that monster all my childhood. It’s the most beautiful monster, one of the top three ever made.”) “Creature” also contains the seeds for the primary conflict in del Toro’s film: the question of whether to preserve and study the aquatic creature (in the interest of science), or kill it (in the interest of safety and survival).— The most obvious influence on “The Shape of Water” is this 1954 monster movie (originally released in 3D), from which del Toro seems to borrow heaviest in creating the look of his aquatic monster — which his characters call the Asset (Doug Jones). Advances in technology allow him to add a few notable bells and whistles, including moving gills and lights under his merman’s skin, but the basic shape and face of the Asset is unmistakably close to the Gill Man’s from “Black Lagoon.” (The filmmaker said this about the Gill Man: “I can only tell you I drew that monster all my childhood. It’s the most beautiful monster, one of the top three ever made.”) “Creature” also contains the seeds for the primary conflict in del Toro’s film: the question of whether to preserve and study the aquatic creature (in the interest of science), or kill it (in the interest of safety and survival).— Like “Water,” Wes Craven’s 1982 adaptation of the “Swamp Thing” series from DC Comics gives us government scientists working on top-secret projects, a creature from the deep, the beautiful woman who loves him and a winking sense of homage and self-awareness. It’s also an awfully good monster movie, for which Craven eschews the grisly tone of some of his better-known efforts, like “The Last House on the Left” and “Nightmare on Elm Street,” and instead embraces the childlike, gee-whiz enthusiasm of the ‘50s comic books that inspired it. Like “Water,” Wes Craven’s 1982 adaptation of the “Swamp Thing” series from DC Comics gives us government scientists working on top-secret projects, a creature from the deep, the beautiful woman who loves him and a winking sense of homage and self-awareness. It’s also an awfully good monster movie, for which Craven eschews the grisly tone of some of his better-known efforts, like “The Last House on the Left” and “Nightmare on Elm Street,” and instead embraces the childlike, gee-whiz enthusiasm of the ‘50s comic books that inspired it. Click to read about five other complementary movies. Click to read about five other complementary movies. As with most of Martin McDonagh’s work, “Three Billboards” is ultimately about posturing, as the grieving mother and the local cops in the film back themselves into separate corners over the unsolved murder of a teenage girl. Brilliant to some, maddening to others, the film has become a lightning rod for its depiction of American life. If you’re looking for cinematic context, there are six great films you can stream right now. As with most of Martin McDonagh’s work, “Three Billboards” is ultimately about posturing, as the grieving mother and the local cops in the film back themselves into separate corners over the unsolved murder of a teenage girl. Brilliant to some, maddening to others, the film has become a lightning rod for its depiction of American life. If you’re looking for cinematic context, there are six great films you can stream right now. The “Three Billboards” of the title refer to the giant outdoor messages that Mildred Hayes (McDormand) buys along the road into town that, read in succession, accuse Chief Bill Willoughby (Harrelson) of dereliction of duty for failing to catch the person who raped and murdered her daughter. The billboards rile her neighbors, reopening old wounds and exposing grim secrets. This idea of a citizen who blurts out uncomfortable truths about her small-town community recalls the “poison pen” letters in the French melodrama “Le Corbeau” by Henri-Georges Clouzot, in which an anonymous whistle-blower nicknamed the Raven exposes local secrets including extramarital affairs and illegal abortions. Civic harmony is a fragile thing, whether in a World War II-era European village or in 21st-century Middle America. And it is often held together by a thin net of shared lies.— The “Three Billboards” of the title refer to the giant outdoor messages that Mildred Hayes (McDormand) buys along the road into town that, read in succession, accuse Chief Bill Willoughby (Harrelson) of dereliction of duty for failing to catch the person who raped and murdered her daughter. The billboards rile her neighbors, reopening old wounds and exposing grim secrets. This idea of a citizen who blurts out uncomfortable truths about her small-town community recalls the “poison pen” letters in the French melodrama “Le Corbeau” by Henri-Georges Clouzot, in which an anonymous whistle-blower nicknamed the Raven exposes local secrets including extramarital affairs and illegal abortions. Civic harmony is a fragile thing, whether in a World War II-era European village or in 21st-century Middle America. And it is often held together by a thin net of shared lies.— It’s never made entirely clear, but Ebbing appears to be the kind of quaint little mountain town that might derive a lot of its income from visitors — tourists who are passing through to hunt, fish and camp. In other words, it’s a cleaned-up version of the hardscrabble Missouri Ozarks community where Ree Dolly dwells in the magnificent rural noir “Winter’s Bone,” directed by Debra Granik (who also helped write the screenplay). Jennifer Lawrence earned a best-actress Oscar nomination for her portrayal of Ree, who, like Mildred Hayes, is a woman wronged by the law. In Ree’s case, she’s on a mission to find her druggie deadbeat dad and save her family’s land from being seized by the state, racing urgently around the county, from the hillside shacks to the antiseptic suburbs of Middle America. It’s never made entirely clear, but Ebbing appears to be the kind of quaint little mountain town that might derive a lot of its income from visitors — tourists who are passing through to hunt, fish and camp. In other words, it’s a cleaned-up version of the hardscrabble Missouri Ozarks community where Ree Dolly dwells in the magnificent rural noir “Winter’s Bone,” directed by Debra Granik (who also helped write the screenplay). Jennifer Lawrence earned a best-actress Oscar nomination for her portrayal of Ree, who, like Mildred Hayes, is a woman wronged by the law. In Ree’s case, she’s on a mission to find her druggie deadbeat dad and save her family’s land from being seized by the state, racing urgently around the county, from the hillside shacks to the antiseptic suburbs of Middle America. Click to read about four other complementary movies. Click to read about four other complementary movies. Read our FAQs or contact us to let us know how we’re doing. 