by Watching Staff Feb. 26, 2018 Watching is The New York Times’s TV and film recommendation website. Sign up for our thrice-weekly newsletter here. Watching is The New York Times’s TV and film recommendation website. Sign up for our thrice-weekly newsletter here. “Blade Runner 2049” is long and bleak and slow. Lest anyone forget, so was the noir-ish original — you’re either into the “Blade Runner” brand of moody sci-fi, or you’re not. But “2049” is also the most aesthetically gorgeous film I saw last year, and yes, I’ve seen the other Oscar nominees for cinematography. If the Academy once againrefuses Roger Deakins the award, I may be forced to write an angry tweet.The director Denis Villeneuve was an inspired choice to take over the franchise from Ridley Scott: Fans of Villeneuve’s earlier films, like “Arrival” and “Sicario,” will recognize the tense silences, the crisp imagery, the powerful sound design. Ryan Gosling is the perfect brooding android, bested only, perhaps, by Harrison Ford — who, as an aged Rick Deckard, plays the perfect brooding maybe-android. There is also a dog: android status similarly undetermined. — Austin Considine, senior staff editor, Watching “Blade Runner 2049” is long and bleak and slow. Lest anyone forget, so was the noir-ish original — you’re either into the “Blade Runner” brand of moody sci-fi, or you’re not. But “2049” is also the most aesthetically gorgeous film I saw last year, and yes, I’ve seen the other Oscar nominees for cinematography. If the Academy once againrefuses Roger Deakins the award, I may be forced to write an angry tweet.The director Denis Villeneuve was an inspired choice to take over the franchise from Ridley Scott: Fans of Villeneuve’s earlier films, like “Arrival” and “Sicario,” will recognize the tense silences, the crisp imagery, the powerful sound design. Ryan Gosling is the perfect brooding android, bested only, perhaps, by Harrison Ford — who, as an aged Rick Deckard, plays the perfect brooding maybe-android. There is also a dog: android status similarly undetermined. — Austin Considine, senior staff editor, Watching “The Real World,” the ur-reality show, set out to document what happens when strangers “stop being polite and start getting real.” “Terrace House,” a copycat import from Japan, finds out what happens when strangers … just … never stop being polite. The show is delightful in its absence of American reality-show conventions. There are no manufactured conflicts or weepy direct-to-camera confessionals. The housemates go to work as usual during the day, and they earnestly encourage one another to realize their dreams at night. And nobody gets voted off. Participants leave the house when they feel their personal journeys are complete. “The Real World,” the ur-reality show, set out to document what happens when strangers “stop being polite and start getting real.” “Terrace House,” a copycat import from Japan, finds out what happens when strangers … just … never stop being polite. The show is delightful in its absence of American reality-show conventions. There are no manufactured conflicts or weepy direct-to-camera confessionals. The housemates go to work as usual during the day, and they earnestly encourage one another to realize their dreams at night. And nobody gets voted off. Participants leave the house when they feel their personal journeys are complete. But in this charmingly sincere environment, the smallest slights can ignite crazy drama. The most notorious scene from the first season involves a group of housemates who eat their roommate’s special meat without permission, an event that comes to be known as “the meat crime.” Oh, and every few scenes, the show cuts to a panel of insult comedians who mercilessly dunk on the contestants and squabble over their romantic prospects. The emotional whiplash makes for a wonderfully destabilizing viewing experience. On “Terrace House,” even the most anodyne interaction teeters on the edge of absurdity. — Amanda Hess, writer covering internet culture But in this charmingly sincere environment, the smallest slights can ignite crazy drama. The most notorious scene from the first season involves a group of housemates who eat their roommate’s special meat without permission, an event that comes to be known as “the meat crime.” Oh, and every few scenes, the show cuts to a panel of insult comedians who mercilessly dunk on the contestants and squabble over their romantic prospects. The emotional whiplash makes for a wonderfully destabilizing viewing experience. On “Terrace House,” even the most anodyne interaction teeters on the edge of absurdity. — Amanda Hess, writer covering internet culture “They’re calling it Ocean’s 7-Eleven!” a TV news reporter exclaims in “Logan Lucky,” describing a brazen theft at a Nascar racetrack. It’s a good tagline for this heist comedy from the director Steven Soderbergh, who runs his “Ocean’s” playbook — let’s get the gang back together for one last convoluted score — at the Charlotte Motor Speedway, in North Carolina.“Logan Lucky” has a wacky sensibility reminiscent of the Coen brothers, and like some of the Coens’ movies, it ran into accusations of laughing at ’em, not with ’em — there are West Virginia jokes, and a character’s prosthetic arm (the result of service in Iraq) is a steady source of physical comedy. But as portrayed by Channing Tatum, Adam Driver and Riley Keough, the Logan siblings and their accomplice Joe Bang (a hilariously deadpan Daniel Craig) show too much heart for any condescension to stick. When Jimmy Logan’s daughter pulls something of a reverse “Little Miss Sunshine” in a performance at a children’s pageant, the look on his face is almost heaven. — David Renard, senior staff editor, Culture “They’re calling it Ocean’s 7-Eleven!” a TV news reporter exclaims in “Logan Lucky,” describing a brazen theft at a Nascar racetrack. It’s a good tagline for this heist comedy from the director Steven Soderbergh, who runs his “Ocean’s” playbook — let’s get the gang back together for one last convoluted score — at the Charlotte Motor Speedway, in North Carolina.“Logan Lucky” has a wacky sensibility reminiscent of the Coen brothers, and like some of the Coens’ movies, it ran into accusations of laughing at ’em, not with ’em — there are West Virginia jokes, and a character’s prosthetic arm (the result of service in Iraq) is a steady source of physical comedy. But as portrayed by Channing Tatum, Adam Driver and Riley Keough, the Logan siblings and their accomplice Joe Bang (a hilariously deadpan Daniel Craig) show too much heart for any condescension to stick. When Jimmy Logan’s daughter pulls something of a reverse “Little Miss Sunshine” in a performance at a children’s pageant, the look on his face is almost heaven. — David Renard, senior staff editor, Culture “Babylon Berlin,” is centered on the vice squad in Weimar Berlin, which gives it no shortage of colorful material: Pornographers shoot comically lurid films; cabaret dancers shimmy in Josephine Baker-like banana skirts; sinister gangsters barter in sex and violence; politicians barter in blackmail; and a crew of Trotskyites plots revolution. This subtitled German-language show is also the first series this year that has made me want to cancel my evening plans in order to keep watching. “Babylon Berlin,” is centered on the vice squad in Weimar Berlin, which gives it no shortage of colorful material: Pornographers shoot comically lurid films; cabaret dancers shimmy in Josephine Baker-like banana skirts; sinister gangsters barter in sex and violence; politicians barter in blackmail; and a crew of Trotskyites plots revolution. This subtitled German-language show is also the first series this year that has made me want to cancel my evening plans in order to keep watching. “Babylon” gives vivid, high-production color to the black-and-white cabaret world evoked in the Marlene Dietrich vehicle “The Blue Angel,” and to the seedy underworld of Fritz Lang’s “M.” (It even features a rendition of Edvard Greig’s “In the Hall of the Mountain King,” which is the tune whistled by Peter Lorre’s child-murdering character in “M” — though, in a typical and eery twist, it features a theremin.) But the show’s power lies not only with its atmosphere but also with the strength of its cast — and its chilling portrayal of a society that’s teetering on the precipice of Nazism. — Michael Cooper, reporter covering classical music and dance “Babylon” gives vivid, high-production color to the black-and-white cabaret world evoked in the Marlene Dietrich vehicle “The Blue Angel,” and to the seedy underworld of Fritz Lang’s “M.” (It even features a rendition of Edvard Greig’s “In the Hall of the Mountain King,” which is the tune whistled by Peter Lorre’s child-murdering character in “M” — though, in a typical and eery twist, it features a theremin.) But the show’s power lies not only with its atmosphere but also with the strength of its cast — and its chilling portrayal of a society that’s teetering on the precipice of Nazism. — Michael Cooper, reporter covering classical music and dance Read our FAQs or contact us to let us know how we’re doing. 