by Judy Berman Feb. 26, 2018 Watching is The New York Times’s TV and film recommendation website. Sign up for our thrice-weekly newsletter here. Watching is The New York Times’s TV and film recommendation website. Sign up for our thrice-weekly newsletter here. Cinephiles, rejoice! The streaming service FilmStruck, which specializes in foreign, indie, classic and art-house cinema, just got a whole lot bigger. Thanks to a deal with Warner Bros. Digital Networks, the streaming service, which is developed and managed by Turner Classic Movies and offers films from the Criterion Collection, is adding hundreds more classic titles to its existing library — including a treasure trove of outstanding selections from the Golden Age of Hollywood. Cinephiles, rejoice! The streaming service FilmStruck, which specializes in foreign, indie, classic and art-house cinema, just got a whole lot bigger. Thanks to a deal with Warner Bros. Digital Networks, the streaming service, which is developed and managed by Turner Classic Movies and offers films from the Criterion Collection, is adding hundreds more classic titles to its existing library — including a treasure trove of outstanding selections from the Golden Age of Hollywood. [Want to learn more about FilmStruck? Read our guide to the service to help you decide if it’s for you.] [Want to learn more about FilmStruck? Read our guide to the service to help you decide if it’s for you.] “Casablanca,” “Citizen Kane,” “Rebel Without a Cause,” “Singin’ in the Rain” and “Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf” are a few of the classics that have been made available exclusively on FilmStruck. The service has also introduced a monthly feature called TCM Select, which pairs a selection of Warner touchstones with bonus materials, including new introductions by the TCM host Ben Mankiewicz. “Casablanca,” “Citizen Kane,” “Rebel Without a Cause,” “Singin’ in the Rain” and “Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf” are a few of the classics that have been made available exclusively on FilmStruck. The service has also introduced a monthly feature called TCM Select, which pairs a selection of Warner touchstones with bonus materials, including new introductions by the TCM host Ben Mankiewicz. The partnership is a result of Warner’s decision to shut down its Warner Archive subscription streaming service, which debuted in 2013. The partnership is a result of Warner’s decision to shut down its Warner Archive subscription streaming service, which debuted in 2013. “We were going to go bigger, add more films, and invest in improving the user experience,” Craig Hunegs, the president of Warner Bros. Digital Networks, told Variety on Monday. “But after sitting down and looking at it, rather than having two overlapping services going after the same audience, we decided to combine them.” “We were going to go bigger, add more films, and invest in improving the user experience,” Craig Hunegs, the president of Warner Bros. Digital Networks, told Variety on Monday. “But after sitting down and looking at it, rather than having two overlapping services going after the same audience, we decided to combine them.” Over the next few weeks, Warner Archive subscribers will see their memberships switched to FilmStruck. Over the next few weeks, Warner Archive subscribers will see their memberships switched to FilmStruck. An earlier version of this article misstated the number of films that had been added to FilmStruck from the Warner Bros. classic film library by the time the article was published. It was hundreds, not more than 600. The films from that library are being added on a rolling basis. An earlier version of this article misstated the number of films that had been added to FilmStruck from the Warner Bros. classic film library by the time the article was published. It was hundreds, not more than 600. The films from that library are being added on a rolling basis. Read our FAQs or contact us to let us know how we’re doing. 