Advertisement By LEIGH-ANN JACKSONMARCH 1, 2018
 In the sublimely odd first season of “Atlanta,” Donald Glover and his crew of creatives trained us to expect the unexpected — whether it’s a local celebrity stunting in an invisible car, an ominous bus passenger aggressively pushing a Nutella sandwich, or a random Migos cameo. The Season 2 premiere’s opening nails the dark comedy’s signature unpredictability factor, but offers up zero chuckles, off-kilter or otherwise. Instead, it socks viewers with the kind of sobering grittiness you’d expect from an episode of “The Wire.” It all starts benignly enough, with a pair of anonymous teens trash talking over sports drinks and video games. Cut to those same teens getting away with armed robbery. A fast-food restaurant is riddled with bullets after a high-octane shootout, a bloody teenage girl is howling in terror, and there’s no explanation for the breakneck escalation of events other than this: It’s robbin’ season. “Christmas approaches and everybody gotta eat,” Darius muses, summing up the recent uptick in neighborhood crime. Advertisement Just like that, a sense of foreboding seeps in. While the city braces for a surge in random violence, Earn comes face-to-face with a chilling future version of himself. And nobody seems to be doing much to prevent either oncoming tragedy. Advertisement Last season, Alfred (a.k.a. “Paper Boi”) stumbled toward rap relevancy while cousin Earn shrugged his way into a music manager role. They both fell haphazardly into modest fame — by way of notoriety — and it seemed possible that they’d return to show off a little bit this time around. Instead, we find them stuck on the same sofas, cruising the same struggling streets and hamstrung by the same old obstacles (rap sheets and general inertia). The only thing that’s changed is Earn’s kick-the-can approach to lodging has resulted in yet another bout of homelessness. He’s been booted from his storage unit squat and can’t even find refuge at his cousin’s condo. As for Al and Darius, the roommates have bad blood brewing and no one will speak on it. Darius is the show’s lone reliable source of levity, so when things aren’t buzzing harmoniously on his weirdo astral plane, morale is low overall. He keeps the episode’s eerie tone going when he pivoted from discussing the everyday horrors of area crime sprees to sharing the urban legend of “Florida Man.” Earn laughs off Darius’s accounts of the white boogeyman, a goof on the meme inspired by the state’s penchant for insane headlines. But the director Hiro Murai gives the tale a dark folkloric edge that raises goose bumps. All this bad mojo was leading up to the big showdown between Earn and his uncle Willy. Al, who’s stuck at home on house arrest, tasked Earn with peacekeeping duties when he got word that Willy was holding a woman against her will. Played by comedian Katt Williams (who’s no stranger to legal drama), Willy’s the bitter, combative relative most of us have and would just as soon avoid. He’s a robe-sporting, chain smoking, venom-spewing cautionary tale for Earn. Willy’s outworn his use to those around him, but he’s still living off Al’s handouts, in a house that Al’s paying for. Darius was right when he pulled up to the house and sensed that the vibes there were “just so intense.” A dispute over $50 led to a low-key hostage situation. Oh, and while Willy’s girlfriend is locked up in one room, there’s a live alligator inexplicably locked in another. (Neighborhood kids call Willy “Alligator Man,” dropping the episode title.) With the police waiting at the door and tensions running high, Earn and Willy get into a heated discussion. “You scared,” Willy reasons. “You gotta stay on [Al’s] good side now, ’cause he’s Mr. Money Bags. I remember Uncle Jarvis used to manage Damon when he was in that group. Now, they don’t even talk no more, ’cause you find out family is business.” Advertisement No, Earn spits back, what he’s actually scared of is turning into Willy, a guy who wasted his shot and is now just a know-it-all screw-up who just lets life happen to him. So far, most signs point to this being Earn’s destiny. He’s been floating through life, wincing and sighing as his housing prospects dwindle, his criminal record racks up points and his past Ivy League laurels fade into irrelevance. He seems to feel he’s above it all, even as he’s drowning in it.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. Willy’s final word of advice was simple and on point: “If you don’t wanna end up like me, get rid of that chip-on-your-shoulder … It’s not worth the time.” With nothing left to say, Earn agrees to hide his uncle’s contraband golden gun from the cops and figured his de-escalating work there was done. But instead of Willy’s expected surrender to the cops, we get that signature left-field element we’d been waiting for in the form of the aforementioned reptile. To paraphrase legendary local lyricist Big Boi, “while the gator’s creeping, crawling, oh so wicked” out the front door, the cops are too distracted to notice Willy making a hasty backdoor escape in his robe and houseshoes. Though he’s clearly doomed, it’s hard not to wish him well. Because if there’s hope for him, there may be hope for Earn, too. The writers returned from their protracted break offering up more questions than answers. It’s not clear how much time has transpired since we last left the core trio. No one knows why Darius and Al have beef at the top of the episode. Who are Uncle Jarvis and Damon, and what did Willy do to Earn’s mom that’s left him carrying a grudge? Will the teens in the opening robbery be relevant down the road? But while you may leave the episode feeling fuzzy about back stories and unsure of whether certain characters will pop up again , you do at least have a clearer understanding of just why Earn’s wary parents don’t let him cross their threshold. It’s because they’ve already seen the blueprint for what he’s becoming. You also see that Darius and Al share that kind of tight-knit bond that allows friends to be unspeakably angry one day, then seamlessly in sync the next. These new layers offer clues as to how these three will progress (or regress, as the case may be) going forward. • Darius is back in his chicken-printed apron again. But this time, his sour mood has affected his cooking: He’s left plating unappetizing sliders. ”Be careful. It’s very, very cold.” Advertisement • Earn, in an attempt to help Alfred and Darius squash their mysterious beef, sincerely tells them he loves them both. He’s then roasted mercilessly because, apparently in their world, there’s no funnier punch line than a man showing vulnerability and expressing his feelings. • Earn to Darius: “What flavor is a Flamin’ Hot Cheeto?” Darius shrugs: “Hot.” Earn samples another: “I am tasting ‘hot.’” Though hilarious in its inanity, this little exchange is juxtaposed with the sights and sounds of a crime scene just across the street. • Uncle Willy, despite being accused of kidnapping a woman, insists that Earn and Darius take off their shoes before entering his house. • “Looks like an Azealia Banks Snapchat,” Darius says, upon looking in on Willy’s alligator to find it surrounded by chicken carcasses. (It’s a rather obscure reference to the rapper-singer’s 2016 video confession about her witchcraft ways.) • The lyrics to Curtis Mayfield’s “When Seasons Change” — which played the episode into the closing credits — read like an outline of everything we just watched (“Time makes you suffer when seasons change/Can’t call no names when you got your own self to blame”). We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 