Advertisement 
Best of Late Night  By                     
 GIOVANNI RUSSONELLO
 
MARCH 1, 2018
 Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. Trevor Noah said he was shocked to hear President Trump take congressional Republicans to task on Wednesday for their ties to the National Rifle Association. “I’ve got to tell you, he didn’t say what you’d expect,” Noah said, adding that Trump reminded him of “a drunk uncle calling everyone out at a wedding.” But Noah suggested that Trump has his own troubling allegiances. “He just publicly busted Republicans for being afraid of the N.R.A., and you can see how confident he is. He’s like, ‘Yeah, you guys are afraid! The N.R.A. doesn’t own me. I’m president, nobody owns me! Oh hold on, Putin’s calling. ‘Oh hey, Vlad, yes, yes, I’ll get on it.’” — TREVOR NOAH On “The Late Show,” Stephen Colbert welcomed Trump’s apparent willingness to consider tighter restrictions on gun ownership. “Wow, he’s doing something Obama never did: He’s coming for your guns.” — STEPHEN COLBERT Advertisement The White House communications director, Hope Hicks, announced her resignation on Wednesday, a day after  admitting to House investigators that she sometimes tells “white lies” on behalf of the president. “She refused to answer almost all of the committee’s questions, but she did acknowledge that she sometimes tells ‘white lies’ for Trump. Well, duh! Telling lies to white people is what got Trump elected.” — STEPHEN COLBERT “White lies, or as Melania calls them, vows.” — SETH MEYERS “So, it’s farewell to Ms. Hicks. Now, in every sense of the word, this administration is truly hopeless.” — STEPHEN COLBERT Advertisement Seth Meyers criticized Ben Carson, the secretary of Housing and Urban Development, for reports that he had spent over $30,000 on furnishings for his office, even while cutting programs for the elderly and the poor. “Five thousand dollars for a chair? Was it a dentist’s chair? Although, that would make sense, as Ben Carson always seems like a guy who’s waiting for the nitrous to wear off.” — SETH MEYERS “Hey, the man loves furniture. Based on his personality, he’s probably been mistaken for furniture.” — SETH MEYERS “There’s a lot of speculation about Oprah running for president. Well, she told People magazine that she’ll run if God sends her a clear sign. Then God said, ‘You’re Oprah — I look to you for signs. Are you running or not?’” — JIMMY FALLON “I read that a city in California passed a law that makes it illegal to cross the street while you’re on your phone. People said they got the message, and will never cross the street again.” — JIMMY FALLON “Donald Trump Jr. reported for jury duty today here in New York, and out of habit, he opened with ‘not guilty!’” — SETH MEYERS Chadwick Boseman, the star of “Black Panther,” surprised a diverse group of African-American fans. James Corden tried out a novel form of torture on Elton John: playing him godawful renditions of John’s own tunes. Chadwick Boseman, star of “Black Panther,” will visit “The Daily Show” on Thursday. Our reporter took a deep dive into “David Bowie Is,” the exhibition opening Friday at the Brooklyn Museum. She writes that it is “a far-reaching survey of his artistry, which includes music, costumes, sketches, stage props and videos.” We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page » 