Advertisement By ANDREW R. CHOWMARCH 1, 2018
 Donald Glover’s “Atlanta” returns with grittier plotlines. Or watch the breezy, dance-filled “An American in Paris.”  ATLANTA 10 p.m. on FX. With its stinging social commentary, hazy musical reveries, fake commercials, invisible cars and a black Justin Bieber parody, the first season of “Atlanta” was unlike anything else on TV in 2016. Its creator, Donald Glover, took some time off to chase other dreams (being a pop star, appearing in “Star Wars”), but he’s back with the show’s second season. While the rap career of Paper Boi (Brian Tyree Henry) begins to take off, Earn (Glover) flounders in a teeming city. “We wanted to show character development in people having their backs against the wall,” Mr. Glover said in an interview with The New York Times. The new season meanders through the city’s streets, with fast-food robberies, alligator standoffs, tense studio sessions and late nights at a strip club with a mixture of absurdity and gravitas. (“Straight Outta Compton,” another unflinching portrait of a hip-hop hub, leads in at 7 p.m.) AN AMERICAN IN PARIS (1951) 8 p.m. on TCM or streaming on FilmStruck. This Gershwin musical won best picture at the 1952 Oscars, but not for the plot, in this film set in post-World War II Paris. It remains enchanting for its kinetic energy and visual splendor, which include lavish dance sequences, bright costuming and the magnetism of its stars, Gene Kelly and Leslie Caron. Kelly acted, sang, danced, and choreographed; he even directed several musical sequences, including the one set to the unforgettable torch ballad “Embraceable You.” GOTHAM 8 p.m. on Fox. This Batman origin story-turned-procedural returns. Jim Gordon (Ben McKenzie) contends with the usual host of the city’s campy criminals, like the Toy Maker, Edward Nygma and Poison Ivy. MUSIC CITY 10 p.m. on CMT. Musicians can spend years in Nashville as cogs in the city’s singer-songwriter machine, gigging and writing hits while remaining in the shadows. In this reality series, five performers hope to take a shortcut to stardom. The docu-series tracks their studio sessions, concerts, and professional and personal relationships. LOGAN (2017) on HBO and iTunes. “Black Panther” has stormed through box offices all over the world and set all kinds of records. But “Logan,” released about a year earlier, set a different kind of precedent: It’s the first live-action superhero film to receive an Oscar screenplay nomination. “‘Logan’ is good enough that you might forget it’s a comic-book movie,” Manohla Dargis wrote in her Times review. The movie focuses on the familial and fiercely protective relationship that forms between an aging Wolverine (Hugh Jackman) and a young mutant named Laura (Dafne Keen). A version of this schedule appears in print on March 1, 2018, on Page C9 of the New York edition with the headline: What’s On Thursday.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 