Advertisement 
Best of Late Night  By                     
 GIOVANNI RUSSONELLO
 
FEB. 28, 2018
 Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. Stephen Colbert is outraged that the Trump administration has not authorized the National Security Agency to fully investigate Russian meddling in the 2016 election. Testifying before the Senate Armed Services Committee on Tuesday, Mike Rogers, the head of the N.S.A., said he was still waiting for the president to give him the authority to look into Russian interference more deeply. Colbert took Trump to task, making a reference to his tweetstorm earlier that day, in which the president called the continuing Russia investigation a “witch hunt.” “The president has not told the National Security Agency to secure the nation against Russian hacking that we know is still happening. It’s like if your house is on fire, and the firemen are all there, and they agree that the flames are presently consuming your center hall colonial, but the fire chief keeps tweeting, ‘Fake news. We don’t know that that’s a fire. Could be a very shiny flood. Point is, there’s no proof of combustion. Witch hunt!’” — STEPHEN COLBERT “There’s no doubt in any of the intelligence agencies that Russia did everything it could to influence the 2016 election — from effective methods, like Facebook ads and Twitter bots, to total dead ends, like Don Jr.” — STEPHEN COLBERT Jimmy Fallon responded sarcastically to the news that Trump is already planning for 2020. “President Trump is expected to announce that he’s running for re-election in 2020. He’s even got a great slogan: ‘Pretend the last four years never happened.’” — JIMMY FALLON “President Trump today endorsed Senator Ted Cruz for re-election ahead of next week’s Republican primary in Texas. And when he heard that, Ted Cruz smiled so big, eight babies started crying.” — SETH MEYERS “A mail carrier in Florida is refusing to deliver mail to a nudist community. He said, ‘I’m sorry, but I’m just tired of seeing people’s packages.’” — JIMMY FALLON “The C.E.O. of Sea World has stepped down. He’s going to be getting a $10 million retirement package — if he can jump up and catch it with his mouth.” — CONAN O’BRIEN Seth Meyers took a critical look at how the Trump administration is handling the opioid epidemic. Bruce Willis crashed an installment of Freestylin’ With the Roots. Omarosa Manigault, the controversial former White House aide who was recently voted off the reality show “Big Brother,” will sit down with Colbert for her first late-night interview since leaving the Trump administration. The young cast members of “Atlanta,” which returns to FX on Thursday, spoke to our reporter about Trump, race and adjusting to fame. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page » 