Advertisement By ANDREW R. CHOWFEB. 28, 2018
 A new series about the 9/11 attacks starring Jeff Daniels arrives on Hulu. And Tyler Henry, the Hollywood Medium, is back at it. THE LOOMING TOWER on Hulu. This highly anticipated 10-part series is ostensibly about the Sept. 11 attacks. But the main adversaries here are not the United States and Al Qaeda but rather the C.I.A. and the F.B.I. Based on Lawrence Wright’s Pulitzer Prize-winning book, this series begins with the 1998 bombing of the United States embassy in Nairobi, Kenya, and shows how infighting between the two federal agencies — and their unwillingness to cooperate or share information — may have allowed Al Qaeda to move forward with its attack. The television drama stalwarts Peter Sarsgaard and Jeff Daniels square off against each other in lead roles. CASABLANCA on FilmStruck. While other streaming services are locked in an arms race to create original content, FilmStruck’s latest gambit was to add more than 600 classic films from Hollywood’s Golden Age, including “Singin’ in the Rain,” “Citizen Kane” and “Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf?” Film buffs will debate this, but the crown jewel might very well be “Casablanca,” Michael Curtiz’s indelible World War II-era romance. You probably already know: Ingrid Bergman walks into Humphrey Bogart’s gin joint; Sam plays it again; the usual suspects are rounded up; a beautiful friendship begins. It’s worth a second watch, and a third. HEARTLAND 9 p.m. on Up. If you live beneath the 49th parallel, you might not be familiar with the Fleming sisters. But they’re the center of the longest-running hourlong scripted drama in Canadian television history. This show follows life, love and horses on an Alberta ranch; its 11th season started in Canada last fall and arrives on American television on Wednesday. In the first episode, the family welcomes a new member: the baby daughter of Amy (Amber Marshall). HOLLYWOOD MEDIUM 9 p.m. on E! Some are skeptical about Tyler Henry’s ability to communicate with the dead: “Mr. Henry plays the role of naïf but is a con man of the highest order,” Jon Caramanica wrote in The New York Times. But whether he has clairvoyant powers is almost beside the point. The allure of his show comes with the reactions of his famous guests, who often break down and show a very different side than their usual chipper selves on the talk-show circuit. (Ellen DeGeneres said he changed her life.) In the third-season premiere, Mr. Henry pokes around the minds of Kristin Cavallari, Jim Parsons, and Todd and Savannah Chrisley. WACO 10 p.m. on Paramount. This mini-series has received largely positive reviews for its depiction of the 1993 Waco siege in which David Koresh, a Texan with apocalyptic Christian views, led Branch Davidians into an F.B.I. standoff. In real life, the confrontation led to the deaths of more than 70 people. In this sixth episode, the standoff comes to its violent end. A version of this schedule appears in print on February 28, 2018, on Page C7 of the New York edition with the headline: What’s On Wednesday.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 