Advertisement 
Best of Late Night  By                     
 GIOVANNI RUSSONELLO
 
FEB. 27, 2018
 Welcome to Best of Late Night, a rundown of the previous night’s highlights that lets you sleep — and lets us get paid to watch comedy. If you’re interested in hearing from The Times regularly about great TV, sign up for our Watching newsletter and get recommendations straight to your inbox. President Trump said on Monday that he believed he would have run into the Florida high school where a gunman opened fire this month, even if he’d been unarmed. Stephen Colbert reacted with disbelief to that statement — then he bore down and reminded his audience that the president avoided military service during the Vietnam War. “O.K. There’s a lot in there that I doubt, but the part I really don’t believe is that he can run.” — STEPHEN COLBERT “Look, sir, we already know how you react to combat situations. You got five deferments from Vietnam. What are you gonna do, run in there and stab ’em with your bone spurs?” — STEPHEN COLBERT Seth Meyers was incredulous too, but for a different reason. “I gotta say, I find it hard to believe Trump would voluntarily run inside a place of education. The only way you would run inside is if a reporter asked you a question outside.” — SETH MEYERS Many companies have decided to cut ties with the National Rifle Association after the shooting in Parkland, Fla., provoked a public outcry over gun violence. “Several businesses have canceled their partnership with the N.R.A. over the past week, including United Airlines. You know you messed up when the company that dragged the guy off the plane is like, ‘You’re making us look bad.’” — JIMMY FALLON “With the Olympics over, 90 countries have departed South Korea. Yep, 90 groups waving goodbye — or as the N.R.A. calls those, sponsors.” — JIMMY FALLON Trevor Noah thought carrying a gun sounded like a pretty smart way to get yourself a discount. “I’m less surprised that corporations are canceling N.R.A. discounts than I am that corporations were giving them discounts in the first place. Like, how does the N.R.A. even get discounts? Were all the N.R.A. members just there like, [brandishes weapon] ‘We’d like a discount.’” — TREVOR NOAH “A new CNN poll has found that Democrats have a 16-point lead over Republicans in a generic congressional ballot. Which means that with a little hard work and some elbow grease, they can still blow this thing.” — SETH MEYERS “A couple in North Carolina recently had their wedding at a Whole Foods store — which explains why, when the officiant asked if there were any objections, someone said, ‘Twelve dollars for milk!’” — SETH MEYERS “At the annual meeting of conservatives called CPAC, a woman who criticized Donald Trump was booed and escorted out by security. Yeah, this is the third time this has happened to Melania.” — CONAN O’BRIEN In his first broadcast since the shooting in Florida, Jimmy Fallon expressed solidarity with the students pushing for gun control legislation and said he would join them at the March for Our Lives, a protest in Washington scheduled for March 24. Steve Harvey thinks he could maybe do James Corden’s job for him. Bruce Willis, whose latest film, “Death Wish,” is in theaters, appears on “The Tonight Show” on Tuesday. A new TV series dramatizes the still-unsolved murders of Biggie Smalls and Tupac Shakur, the rappers who were famously gunned down in the 1990s. And its creators seem to be fairly certain about who was responsible for the killings. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page » 