Advertisement By SARA ARIDIFEB. 27, 2018
 A new true-crime series dramatizes the deaths of the Notorious B.I.G. and Tupac Shakur. And Marlon Wayans returns to Netflix with a stand-up special. UNSOLVED: THE MURDERS OF TUPAC AND THE NOTORIOUS B.I.G. 10 p.m. on USA. The rappers Tupac Shakur and Christopher Wallace, known as Biggie, were killed in drive-by shootings in 1996 (Tupac) and 1997 (Biggie). Their murder cases remain unsolved. This new true-crime series follows the dual investigations, led by Detective Greg Kading (Josh Duhamel) and Detective Russell Poole (Jimmi Simpson). In a conversation with Jon Caramanica of The New York Times, Salamishah Tillet, a writer and professor at the University of Pennsylvania, said she hoped programs like “Unsolved” would “pressure the Los Angeles police to finally solve these murders, give the rappers’ families some closure and get all of us who grew up with their deaths as our generational tragedy closer to the truth.” WE’LL MEET AGAIN 8 p.m. on PBS (check local listings).  Ann Curry hosts this touching series that unites people who parted ways after historic events. In this series finale, two gay men seek the kind souls who helped them embrace their sexuality at the height of the gay rights movement. THE PROFIT 10 p.m. on CNBC. In this season finale, the entrepreneur Marcus Lemonis takes a second stab at saving the Farrell’s Ice Cream Parlour chain. He invested $750,000 in Season 4. Advertisement MARLON WAYANS: WOKE-ISH (2018) on Netflix. The comedian Marlon Wayans starred in the romantic comedy “Naked,” which arrived on Netflix last summer, and recently secured a second season of his family sitcom “Marlon” on NBC. This new no-holds-barred stand-up special unleashes his wilder side. Generous with his expletives, Mr. Wayans riffs on racism in America, shares his parenting methods and compares Donald Trump to Flavor Flav, the clock-wearing Public Enemy member and reality-TV personality. BREATHLESS (1960) on iTunes and FilmStruck. Jean-Luc Godard laid the groundwork for the French New Wave with this jazzy debut feature. After killing a police officer and stealing a car, a French hoodlum (Jean-Paul Belmondo) gets together with his American lover (Jean Seberg) before his cover is blown. Fans of this classic admire it not for its plot but for its groundbreaking style, cultural references and eccentric score. “It is certainly no cliché,” Bosley Crowther wrote in The Times. “It is more a chunk of raw drama, graphically and artfully torn with appropriately ragged edges out of the tough underbelly of modern metropolitan life.” PUNCH-DRUNK LOVE (2002) on iTunes, Amazon and Hulu. Adam Sandler stars as Barry, a socially awkward salesman whose mundane life (he sells wholesale bathroom supplies out of a warehouse) is transformed by his introduction to Lena (Emily Watson). Empowered by their love, Barry finds strength to overcome his seven sisters’ relentless bullying and foil an extortion scheme plotted by a phone-sex entrepreneur (Philip Seymour Hoffman). A version of this schedule appears in print on February 27, 2018, on Page C7 of the New York edition with the headline: What’s On Tuesday.  Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe

 We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 