Advertisement 
The Alienist  By                     
SEAN T. COLLINS

FEB. 26, 2018
 The alienist has failed, but “The Alienist” has succeeded spectacularly. Written by E. Max Frye and directed with verve by Paco Cabezas, this week’s episode was the show’s best to date, by far. It begins and ends with strong, disturbing images of death: a pale horse, lying dead on the cobblestone as street kids pass by; in closing, we see an eyeless young boy, abducted from the brothel where he worked, murdered and deposited at the feet of the Statue of Liberty. In between, Dr. Laszlo Kreizler and his team secure Commissioner Teddy Roosevelt’s help in a pair of sting operations to catch the boy’s killer. They divide themselves into teams of two, lying in wait as the young Stevie, Kreizler’s ward, dresses in uncomfortable drag in an attempt to lure the murderer into their clutches. After a tense false start on the Feast of the Ascension, the plan works on Pentecost. Stevie is approached by the murderer, and his momentarily distracted minders, John Moore and Marcus Isaacson, spring into action. The killer flees, guns are drawn, bullets fly and a casualty is incurred as Kreizler’s driver, Cyrus, is struck down by the suspect. But this last bit is just a distraction, as Moore and Kreizler realize in horror when they look across the street and see an open window into a now-empty room in the brothel they had just been staking out. Stevie is safe, but one of the real child prostitutes they were attempting to protect is gone. Forever. Alternately thrilling and heartbreaking, the sequence is “The Alienist” at its best. Advertisement Whatever happens next, at least we now know for a fact that the team can rule out Willem Van Bergen as a suspect — not least of all because dead men can’t kill. While Kreizler and company pursued the murderer from brothel to rooftop and back, the silver-toothed scion of privilege and known pedophile — who’s been protected by everyone from his mother to the mayor to J.P. Morgan to the police department brass — met his end at the barrel of the former captain Connor’s gun. Advertisement Yes, that former captain Connor, the one who seemed so dedicated to the cover-up surrounding Van Bergen’s crimes that he continued to act in concert with the conspiracy even after his involvement cost him his job. Tipped off by an informant that Willem is back on the prowl — his parents had instructed him to board a ship to Buenos Aires, but the young and syphilitic dandy just can’t help himself — Connor intercepts him almost immediately. A chase ensues up the scaffolding of a bridge under construction, which is when we get tentative confirmation of Kreizler’s theory that Van Bergen is not the killer: The murderer routinely scales buildings to deposit the corpses of his pray; Van Bergen is clearly terrified of heights. If only he’d been as wary of ex-cops, he might have survived. When Connor and one of his minions corner Van Bergen at the edge of the structure, Willem starts whining and boasting of his immunity from prosecution, persecution and most certainly death; his family is from the 400, you see, and the likes of Connor wouldn’t dare touch him. Van Bergen’s sense of entitlement is so total, and so absurd, that I couldn’t help but say “whoops!” when a round from Connor’s revolver entered his brain. Bad break, buddy. Connor’s actions eliminate the story’s previous prime suspect, steering the plot through a sharp left turn. But those actions also take us on a journey deeper into the villain himself. Before tonight, the Captain came across as a racist, sexist, homophobic Irish cop stereotype who followed his corrupt orders with no questions asked. Now, he’s … well, he’s still a racist, sexist, homophobic Irish cop stereotype. But the following-orders part of Connor’s character got shot in the head and thrown off the bridge, right along with Willem Van Bergen.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. After Commissioner Roosevelt fired him for his role in having covered for young “Willie,” Connor seemed to realize that the rich creeps he had risked his career to protect had no interest in protecting him in turn. With the loss of that career comes the loss of all its perks, too: Imagine the indignity of suddenly having to pay a nickel for a beer instead of drinking it on the house — and getting called a “paddy” in the bargain. Now that he’s a civilian, he’s freer with his feelings about Van Bergen’s behavior, which he helped cover up but never condoned. Whatever the combination of causes, this is a man who’s fed up with doing his ungrateful paymasters’ dirty work. Willem never stood a chance — and Connor will be a much more interesting antagonist moving forward. Indeed, from top to bottom, characters are coming into their own. In their off-duty moments, the chemistry sparks and sizzles between Moore and Sara, on the one hand, and between Kreizler and his mute maid, Mary, on the other. When Mary cuts her finger while preparing the doctor’s dinner, Kreizler notices the injury and slowly unwraps the bandage; the eroticism of the act is unmistakable even before he licks his own finger and applies his saliva to her wound as a “natural coagulant.” Speaking of fingers, Sara’s later riff on why John would be a lousy typist is one big digit-based double entendre. “I think you lack dexterity — in your fingers, that is,” says. “All men do. That’s why they’ll never be any good at it.” I’m sorry, what were we talking about again? Advertisement Their newfound, jokey rapport, aided by Moore’s sobriety, is a real pleasure to watch in action throughout the episode. Take the conversation in which Sara reveals that she’s been investigating Kreizler’s background to find out why he’s so prejudiced against fathers. (It seems likely his right arm was crippled by abuse and not caused by a congenital defect, as he has insisted.) “Perhaps you’re in love with him,” John says. “Perhaps I am,” Sara replies, smiling, before moving on. Both parties know they’re misdirecting each other from their romantic interest in each other, and both of them knowingly play along. The actors Dakota Fanning and Luke Evans are so low-key and likable in these roles: She’s all poise and quiet but with razor-sharp intelligence; he’s all charm and swagger that gives way to openhearted kindness and concern at a moment’s notice. These complementary qualities give warmth and heat to their slow burn. Those qualities also make their scenes with other characters crackle in unexpected and welcome ways. When John encounters Joseph at the local soda shop and later at the brothel, his mixture of pride and embarrassment over his own career as an illustrator — a gig Joseph views with incredulity — is genuinely endearing, as is his fatherly concern for the boy. And when Sara presses Kreizler on the truth about his arm, her relentlessness in search of the truth echoes Kreizler’s own. I think it is seeing himself in her that drives him to slap her into silence, more than anything else. It’s a shocking moment, and it’s cut short by the revelation that the killer is among them, and the discovery that despite their best efforts, he has killed again. But it’s a moment that works only because these characters are truly beginning to come alive. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. See More » Go to Home Page » 