Advertisement Supported by By Carla Correa There are two ways to watch “The Bachelor.” The first is, in “Bachelor” parlance, to be swept away on the “journey” and suspend any disbelief that suitors are “here for the right reasons.” For most viewers, though, the only way to sit through a two-hour episode is to accept the polyamorous spectacle as one big social experiment. It’s hard to imagine that the millions of intelligent women (and men) who tune into the show are sold on its premise. Yet many of them consumed six hours of “Bachelor” programming per week this month. That’s not including the time they spent reading recaps, listening to “Bachelor”-adjacent podcasts or scrolling through contestants’ Instagram feeds. Just as the internet can act as a (very dangerous) political echo chamber, it can also function as a “Bachelor” hall of mirrors, wherein the franchise’s offshoots become unavoidable. In turn, immersing oneself in Bachelor Nation can be accidental. Or it can be a completely intentional, journalistic pursuit. I am watching 29 women compete for a Bachelor whom America did not want, “the human equivalent of a beige driving moccasin,” a man Kareem Abdul-Jabbar characterized as “shallow, bland, stiff and inarticulate.” (Though he added a disclaimer: He didn’t know the guy personally.) Arie Luyendyk Jr., a racecar driver turned real estate agent, may soon pick a fiancée on television, after narrowing a pool of mostly white 20-somethings on Season 22 to three women. In the season premiere there were four Laurens; now we’re down to one. There was a “Bachelor” first: a woman with a pixie cut. The lack of diversity isn’t new. The first African-American lead, Rachel Lindsay, was cast in 2017, a whopping 15 years after “The Bachelor” had its premiere.  On NPR, Linda Holmes described the franchise as a metaphor for white privilege: Talent hops from one “Bachelor” program to another. It’s “a story almost entirely of a white person picking the next white person,” she said, “and of that white person then picking another white person, and everybody shrugging and saying, ‘I just went with my gut!’”  I’m late to watching this season, but I can’t say I missed much. “The Bachelor” is a self-sustaining ecosystem with few surprises. Social media has only made the show easier to spin off. While it’s live on television, the “Bachelor” faithful go on Twitter to analyze the relationships and dissect manipulation by producers. Watching the commentary can be more fun than watching the show.  And then there’s Instagram. I tap through photos, starting with the fan favorite Ashley Iaconetti, known as “Crying Girl.” The list of accounts she follows is a pipeline of “Bachelor” contestants, and I absent-mindedly burn through 45 minutes.  Here, the contestants gain what they seem to have auditioned for: internet fame. Many alumni pepper their feeds with sponsored content, advertisements for products that purport to improve lives: the meal kit delivery service HelloFresh, “detox” concoctions like Flat Tummy Tea, whatever a FabFitFun box is. Each contestant sells a lifestyle: She is happy. She is effortlessly chic. She is usually on vacation. She is what the show implies a woman is supposed to be: white, affluent and hyperfeminine. I scroll through podcasts created by fans and contestants and eventually land on “Bachelor Party,” hosted by Juliet Litman, of The Ringer. Her guest is a juicy get: the ABC executive Rob Mills, who shares that one of Mr. Luyendyk’s 25-year-old suitors has previously been engaged twice.  Then I read “Bachelor” blogs en route to the taping of another podcast, “Here to Make Friends,” produced by HuffPost. The hosts, Emma Gray and Claire Fallon, spend about an hour recapping an episode with Caila Quinn, a contestant envied for her bouncy, shiny hair.  Ms. Quinn, a focal point of misleading editing on the spinoff “Bachelor in Paradise,” is reserved and gracious, and asks if I’d like to wear her faux-fur coat for a photo. As she helps me into each sleeve, I silently acknowledge that I am the kind of person who is a bit star-struck by reality television personalities. I ask the hosts why we binge on “The Bachelor.” The 24-hour news cycle is overwhelming, Ms. Gray says, so there’s something very satisfying about watching a show based in an alternate reality. “The stakes feel high, but they’re actually low.” The franchise is also appealing, Ms. Fallon says, because it taps into our basic desire for human connection. It’s nice to imagine that love can be this simple. As I stock up on wine for an evening “Bachelor” viewing party, I listen to Mr. Luyendyk’s “favorite tunes” on Spotify. Then, at home, I bake cupcakes from a recipe on Ms. Quinn’s blog while watching the series premiere of “Bachelor Pad.” I also arrange a platter of deli meat, inspired by the contestant Chad Johnson, and scan stories on Snapchat and posts on Off the Vine, a Facebook group started by the former Bachelorette Kaitlyn Bristowe. The content never ends. The limit does not exist. If a woman for some reason wants to be on “The Bachelor,” she can fill out an application that relies largely on photos and video. The Season 16 winner, Courtney Robertson, advises women to “save producers time by wearing a bikini in the photo.” That reminds me: It’s time for my “Bachelor” workout. Exercises are tied to episode plot points. A date card shows up: 10 jumping jacks. The Bachelor kisses a woman: 10 mountain climbers. Feeling uninspired, I switch to Krystal Nielson’s YouTube channel for an 18-minute total body workout. Ms. Nielson is the villain on Mr. Luyendyk’s season, so America doesn’t like her. Eleven minutes in, I dislike her, too. I’m out of breath. My legs are on fire, but they’re still not hot enough to lounge poolside at Villa de la Vina, better known as the “Bachelor” mansion. Stephen Carbone is a thorn in ABC’s side. Mr. Carbone has run the website RealitySteve.com for years, and since Season 13 of “The Bachelor” he has spoiled the show's endings.  He now records a weekly podcast too, and holds an annual fan appreciation party at the Mandalay Bay Resort and Casino in Las Vegas. The show’s creators do not acknowledge Mr. Carbone, aside from threatening him with legal action. But what would they say if they did? “They can’t say, ‘That guy doesn’t know what he’s talking about,’” Mr. Carbone says. And “they can’t say, ‘Oh, he’s right.’” Would Mr. Carbone call himself a fan? “The fun part for me is while it’s filming and spoiling it while it’s happening.” When he watches in retrospect, he says, “I can’t believe anything out of these people’s mouths.” It’s hard to trust what contestants say on camera because editors can recut dialogue and interviews using a trade technique known as “frankenbiting.” Amy Kaufman, a Los Angeles Times reporter and the author of “Bachelor Nation,” knows all about this. For the book, she consulted former producers and contestants who told all, including the following: Sleep-deprived or intoxicated contestants are taken into a sort of solitary confinement for questioning. Some say what the producer wants simply to end an interview.  Chris Bukowski, a five-time contestant, was pressured to propose to a woman he didn’t like very much. (He didn’t go through with it.) Clare Crawley, a four-time contestant, was made to appear as if she confided in a raccoon. “I wouldn’t advise the smartest, most independent-minded friend I have to come on this show,” she says. “I don’t think you can control what happens.” Sean O’Leary is part of a “Bachelor” fantasy league, in which he and 20 co-workers at a public relations firm in Virginia try to predict the semi-predictable. The participants choose contestants they think will advance to the next episode. Bragging rights, and maybe a gift card, are at stake. The brackets are taped to a conference room wall, Mr. O’Leary says: “Most people when they visit the office, it’s the first thing they notice.” Adam Hoover’s league is a tad more complicated. Like the N.F.L., “The Bachelor” has its own language: First impression rose. One-on-ones. Hometowns. Fantasy suites. Points are awarded for all in Mr. Hoover’s league, which he and his wife run with another couple. “At the end of every season, we say if so-and-so is the Bachelor, we might not do this again,” Mr. Hoover says. “And we always do.” I serve contestant-endorsed cheese pasta and cheese pizza, along with plenty of wine, to my “Bachelor” support group, which has convened for the premiere of “The Bachelor Winter Games.” We end up talking through the Games, stopping only to acknowledge how cheesy the meal and the premise are. (The show finished a distant second in the ratings to the actual Olympics.) “UnReal,” a Lifetime drama that takes place behind the scenes of a “Bachelor” look-alike called “Everlasting,” was a show I’d never watched until now. It focuses on the manipulation contestants endure at the hands of producers and exaggerates what we see in the “Bachelor” franchise, but not beyond recognition. Sarah Gertrude Shapiro, a co-creator of “UnReal,” was a producer of “The Bachelor.” Part of her job during that time, she told The New Yorker, was to get contestants to “open up, and to give them terrible advice, and to deprive them of sleep.”  “Bachelor” contestants aren’t allowed to read while filming. A former contestant, Ashley Spivey, said that producers confiscated her copy of “Life of Pi” even before cameras were rolling. Now she runs a 6,000-person book club on Facebook. Currently, the club’s members are reading “An American Marriage,” by Tayari Jones, but Ms. Spivey suggested that I break up my “Bachelor”-thon with “The Light We Lost,” which explores a relationship shaped by outside events: a love story nothing like “The Bachelor.” After an hour of blissful escapism, I turn the “Bachelor” switch back on and crack open “Single State of Mind,” by the former contestant Andi Dorfman. I can’t relate to much in Ms. Dorfman’s book about post-reality-TV life, but I laugh when she is shocked to learn, while apartment hunting, that for one place in the West Village, she must earn 90 times the monthly rent. Welcome to New York, Ms. Dorfman. I am at the zenith of Bachelor Nation, but I have 27 think pieces and a parody called “Burning Love” on my agenda. I’ll save delving into an on-set sexual misconduct allegation for another day, because that deserves the kind of thought and attention that is rarely present past midnight. It occurs to me that if I sleep, I may dream about “The Bachelor,” and that technically I’d be consuming “Bachelor” content. I have a nightmare about writing this article. Advertisement 