Advertisement 
Here and Now  By                     
JUDY BERMAN

FEB. 25, 2018
 Two roads diverged under the sign of 11:11, and Greg Boatwright — he disobeyed the robotic voice of his car’s GPS and turned in the other direction. That was the moment of modern-day poetry that concluded last week’s installment of “Here and Now.” This week’s episode opens during the same drive. Greg spots a deer, impulsively pulls over, follows it into the woods, gets stung by a bee, wanders until he’s lost, falls down into the mud, dozes off under a tree and awakens the next morning to the sight of the same majestic deer defecating. He soon realizes that he’s been embarrassingly close to his car all night and speeds off to his ethics conference, where he turns his portentous but apparently meaningless experience into a vehicle for his new-found nihilism. For those of us who are already sick of Greg’s self-pitying pontification, and are disappointed to see him start to edge out Ramon as the show’s most prominent character, it’s a rough story to endure. If “Here and Now” never becomes anything more than an interesting failure, the Bayer-Boatwright patriarch’s rich-white-guy midlife crisis will surely deserve a healthy share of the blame. And yet, later in the episode, it’s one of Greg’s many monologues that provides a rare glimpse of the much better series one hopes it could still become. Humiliated by a TV news interview in which she seems to defend whichever student hung a black effigy from a tree at Kristen’s school, and reeling from the revelation that the principal is cutting the Empathy Initiative, Audrey has called Greg home for some sexual healing. But because he has run out of his “magic pills,” they end up talking in bed. She confronts him about his depression. He maintains that what looks like mental illness is really grief over growing older and watching the world become a place he no longer recognizes. “I really felt like I was part of it, and it was part of me,” he tells her. Advertisement Until this scene, Greg came across as a sort of living Op-Ed page, rehashing the liberal hopelessness and outrage that has filled those columns for the past two years. His observation about aging — particularly the idea that it makes us lose our sense of unity with the world around us — is different. It explains not only his personal disillusionment, but, by implication, his alienation from idealistic young people like Ramon and also from the majority of American men of Greg’s age and race, whose beliefs have become incomprehensible to him. His loneliness is revealed to be more existential than physical. It helps that Tim Robbins and Holly Hunter, in the show’s first exchange worthy of their talents, play the scene with such tenderness. Advertisement Whether it’s chemical, environmental or both, Greg’s affliction appears to be a potent cocktail of depression about the state of the world and anxiety about its future. He says as much at the ethics conference, scoffing at a colleague’s insistence that the most logical response to global turmoil is optimism. “No wonder Dante populated the first circle of hell with philosophers,” he says. “Anxiety is a completely appropriate response to today’s reality.” The word “anxiety” reverberates through this episode, the same way empathy and fear kept popping up last week. Ramon confesses to Farid that he hasn’t stopped smoking weed because it soothes his nerves. He and Henry don’t have much else to do in this hour, besides serving as foils for Ramon’s high-achieving older siblings — who are, by all appearances, driven primarily by their various anxieties.  Please verify you're not a robot by clicking the box. Invalid email address. Please re-enter. You must select a newsletter to subscribe to. View all New York Times newsletters. At the Bayer-Boatwright dinner party, Duc, who is quickly becoming a caricature of a Type A jerk, attacks Henry for working as a barista. Henry politely suggests that following some ambitious life plan doesn’t always work out the way you intend. A new character, Carmen (played by Fernanda Andrade), an “intuitive” who seems destined to play a role in both Duc’s and Ramon’s lives (she balks at Duc’s use of the word “psychic”), heartily agrees. It turns out that Ramon’s game, which he says is about “how we perceive impossibility,” whatever that means, isn’t exactly goal oriented, either. By now, it’s obvious that the “Here and Now” creator, Alan Ball, reserves much of his empathy (that word again!) for characters like Ramon, Henry and Ashley’s husband, Malcolm (Joe Williamson), who aren’t always laboring toward some inane accomplishment. In a purely expositional side story, Duc scolds Malcolm for squandering his opportunity to win a bike race, and Malcolm replies that he’d rather be happy than victorious. I appreciate that obnoxiously competitive people exist in the world, but three episodes in, I wish the show would give us a reason to care about Duc. Instead, it is painting Farid as a sort of secular saint. In a scene in which he bares his scarred back, the psychiatrist repeats worries he’s already expressed about Navid’s religious commitment and fluid gender expression: “I just want to keep you safe, that’s all,” he tells his son. “We already have targets on our backs.” As Farid explains to a clerk at Cannabliss, he suffers from “religious anxiety” and can only bear to attend a Muslim wedding after sharing a joint with (why not?) a homeless woman. The tension between Farid and his American-born family is rich with potential. But it is surrounded by so much narrative clutter that the show barely has time to dig into it. Meanwhile, Ashley is stuck with this week’s “huh?” subplot. Just as Kristen is informing Ashley’s model buddy that he gave her chlamydia (and that she still wouldn’t mind hooking up with him again), his girlfriend appears. When Ashley hears what happened, she lures him into her studio for a photo shoot, where she dresses him in a doughnut-print onesie, threatens to report him to the police and forces him to confess on camera that he is “guilty of statutory rape.” Later, she emails Kristen the video. Subject line: “VENGEANCE.” I guess this is supposed to be a righteous, girl-power moment, but it just made me pity the model. Yes, he cheated on his girlfriend (assuming they’re monogamous) and unknowingly passed chlamydia to a minor. Yes, the age of consent in Oregon is 18. But Kristen is 17, in a country where most states allow teens to consent at 16 or 17, and she was wearing a horse mask when they met and never took it off, before or during sex. Is humiliating this happy-go-lucky idiot and calling him a rapist — in that way implying that Kristen is a rape victim — really a sane response? I got the feeling that these scenes were supposed to demonstrate her loyalty to her sister, but Ashley comes out of them looking slightly unhinged. It’s story lines like these that crowd out the show’s more promising aspects, from Farid’s family drama to Ramon’s video game to Greg’s hunger to feel connected with the world again. Last week, I complained that “Here and Now” was spelling out what each character represents to the exclusion of exploring who they all are. That continuing issue aside, Ball is introducing too many subplots and invoking too many huge concepts (empathy, fear, anxiety, religious devotion, optimism, nihilism, relativism, hedonism, sexism, racism) to give any element the attention it deserves. At this point, an episode that delves deep into just a few characters or lingers at one event would be a relief. The only way to fix this show is to slow it down. We’re interested in your feedback on this page. Tell us what you think. Go to Home Page » 