The actor criticized media outlets for ‘ridiculous’ comments about an outfit she wore during the press tour for her latest film
Jake Nevins

Wed 21 Feb 2018 11.45 EST


Last modified on Wed 21 Feb 2018 12.13 EST

Jennifer Lawrence has criticized “sexist” media coverage of her fashion choices in a new Facebook post.The Oscar-winning actor, currently on a press tour for thriller Red Sparrow, responded to comments suggesting that the sleeveless Versace outfit worn during a photocall in London implied that she was being mistreated alongside her coat-wearing male co-stars.“Wow. I don’t really know where to get started on this ‘Jennifer Lawrence wearing a revealing dress in the cold’ controversy,” she wrote. “This is not only utterly ridiculous, I am extremely offended. That Versace dress was fabulous, you think I’m going to cover that gorgeous dress up with a coat and a scarf? I was outside for five minutes. I would have stood in the snow for that dress because I love fashion and that was my choice.”An article in Jezebel had the headline, Please Give Jennifer Lawrence a Dang Coat, showing the actor’s co-stars, Joel Edgerton and Jeremy Irons among them, wearing large coats and scarves. Similarly, Metro wrote that the men in the image are “nicely wrapped up bracing themselves against the chill of a bracing London winter, while Jennifer Lawrence is wearing a plunging thigh-split gown”. One tweet that called it “quietly depressing and revealing” received over 12,000 likes.“This is sexist, this is ridiculous, this is not feminism,” she wrote. “Overreacting about everything someone says or does, creating controversy over silly innocuous things such as what I choose to wear or not wear, is not moving us forward. It’s creating silly distractions from real issues. Get a grip people. Everything you see me wear is my choice. And if I want to be cold THAT’S MY CHOICE TOO!”The event in question took place at London’s Corinthia Hotel during a photocall for Red Sparrow, the espionage thriller in which Lawrence plays a prima ballerina turned Soviet spy who seduces men in order to gain intelligence from them.