Stephen Colbert, Jimmy Kimmel and Trevor Noah, discussed the FBI’s latest indictments and the vocal Florida high school students 
Jake Nevins

Wed 21 Feb 2018 10.50 EST

Late-night hosts on Tuesday discussed the indictment of 13 Russian nationals by special counsel Robert Mueller, Mitt Romney’s upcoming Senate run and the mass shooting in Parkland, Florida.“It can be a rough and depressing world, but this weekend we finally got some news that was good, and it comes to us from Wakanda,” began Stephen Colbert. “Black Panther broke all sorts of records this weekend: it had the largest solo super-hero opening of all time, the largest ever box office in February and the most white people seeing a movie starring a black person who is not Will Smith.”“Meanwhile, back here in America we have our own drama,” he continued. “On Friday, Robert Mueller indicted 13 Russian nationals and three Russian entities for allegedly meddling in the 2016 presidential election, charging them with conspiracy to defraud the United States. First of all, no one saw this coming. There were no leaks. Mueller’s office does not leak. That place is tighter than Mike Pence’s sphincter.”The host went on to explain some of the Russians’ methodology, including posting divisive Facebook ads, posing as political activists, and using talking points involving immigration, religion and race.“According to the indictments, some of the Russians were also in contact with unwitting individuals associated with the Trump campaign,” Colbert explained. “Unwitting: so that narrows it down to the entire Trump campaign.” Colbert noted that Donald Trump believes the indictment exonerates him, having tweeted: “Funny how the Fake News Media doesn’t want to say that the Russian group was formed in 2014, long before my run for President. Maybe they knew I was going to run even though I didn’t know!”Impersonating Trump, Colbert joked: “Maybe they told me I had to run because they had pictures of me with prostitutes.”Jimmy Kimmel briefly discussed Mitt Romney’s intentions to run for the Senate in Utah, and his reaction to receiving Trump’s endorsement. After the 2012 presidential candidate announced his candidacy, Trump tweeted: “Mitt Romney has announced he’s running for the Senate from the wonderful state of Utah. He will make a worthy successor to Orrin Hatch and has my full support and endorsement.”“Which is interesting because, as you may recall almost exactly two years ago, Mitt Romney did something that rarely is done in modern American politics,” Kimmel said. “He broke with his party and went full force after Donald Trump, who was a candidate at the time.”Kimmel went on to note that Romney once tweeted, in 2016, that he would not have accepted Trump’s endorsement had he “said four years ago the things he said today about the KKK, Muslims, Mexicans, Disabled”.“Trump endorsed Romney over Obama for president in 2012,” the host explained. “But now that Trump has endorsed Romney for senator? Romney said – anyone want to guess?”“Thank you, Mr President for the support,” Kimmel said, reading Romney’s response to the endorsement. “Boy, when Mitt gets to the senate he’s going to fit right in.”Finally, Trevor Noah took aim at Republican lawmakers and Fox News hosts for their inaction in the wake of the shooting at Marjory Stoneman Douglas high school.“By now, we all know the tragic story of the Parkland, Florida shooting,” Noah began. “A 19 year-old who had purchased multiple weapons walked into his high school that he was expelled from and shot and killed 17 students and teachers.”“My first instinct is to talk about limiting guns, but I’m an idiot. I get it. In my dumb mind I keep thinking that gun violence is somehow related to guns,” Noah said sarcastically. “But the one thing I am sure about is that a lot of people in America think that after a shooting that is not the time to talk about guns. Noah then showed Fox News coverage after the shooting; in one clip, Jeannine Pirro suggests having more cops at schools and perimeter controls, while Newt Gingrich proposes arming teacher. Another pundit suggests teaching students hand-to-hand combat. “These ideas are so absurd. It might be kind of fun to live in their world. When you think about it, it’s a world free of embarrassment. No idea is too ridiculous,” Noah responded. “Hand-to-hand combat? Does this guy know what a gun is?”Noah went on to say that, despite the suggestions of Fox News, solving problems is ultimately the job of Congress. He showed a clip of Florida senator Marco Rubio saying last week that even if regulations were passed, shooters would find a way to get a gun regardless.“Nothing inspires more confidence than a lawmaker who doesn’t believe in the power of laws,” Noah replied. “It’s like your pastor saying ‘Hey man, I would pray for your cancer but who knows if this shit really works?’”Noah continued: “So another mass shooting and we’re in exactly the same place. Don’t talk about the guns and don’t bother changing the laws. It feels like nothing’s ever going to change. Except this time there was one big difference. Those meddling kids.”After showing coverage of the students at Marjory Stoneman Douglas, many of whom are vocally advocating for gun reform, Noah said, “These kids are inspirational. They’re doing town halls, they’re marching on Congress, all while mourning the loss of their fellow schoolmates. What they lack in experience they seem to be making up for with sharp moral clarity.” “I know some people think, they’re just kids, can they really make a difference?,” Noah asked. “Think of it this way: their generation found a way to make it cool to eat Tide Pods. There’s nothing they can’t do.”