Ahead of the 2018 Academy Awards, Steve Rose makes a rousing case for the thrilling political drama in which Gary Oldman gives us the full Churchill 
Steve Rose

Wed 21 Feb 2018 04.00 EST


Last modified on Wed 21 Feb 2018 05.33 EST

In this movie year of seismic change, it is admittedly highly unlikely that the Academy will hand best picture to a film that begins in a roomful of posh, old white guys, but that doesn’t mean there isn’t a case to be made for Darkest Hour. And were that case not made (summons inner Churchill, orchestral music swells on the soundtrack), and made with steadfastness and resolve, then this inspirational motion picture would suffer a fate not unlike that of our desperate fighting forces stranded at Dunkirk had Operation Dynamo not been undertaken. And where would we be then? (Shouts of “Hear, hear old chap!”, much waving of bills of parliament in the hands of besuited politicians, string section reaches crescendo).Darkest Hour might retell one of the most retold stories in British history, but make no mistake, it is very much a film of the 21st century, made with intelligence, craftsmanship and the occasional special effects-enhanced flourish, not to mention a knowledge of its own semi-fictional status. It is not the story of how Britain won the war, nor is it a biopic, or a veiled Brexit allegory. (What does the Academy care about that, anyway?) It is closer to a pacy political thriller – a 1940s West Wing, if you will – covering a relatively short period of time: May to June 1940, the first few weeks of Churchill’s premiership.More than Britain versus Germany, Darkest Hour is Churchill versus his cabinet, and in particular his predecessor Neville Chamberlain and the Earl of Halifax, who seek either to negotiate with Hitler’s Germany or push the unpopular Churchill out of office for refusing to do so. Such corridors-of-power machinations necessarily involve more roomfuls of posh old white guys talking, but it doesn’t often feel like it. Joe Wright brings considerable visual artistry to this film. Events move briskly and the camera moves with them, tracking the streets out of Churchill’s car window, keeping pace with him through the underground maze of the war rooms, even, in one bravura shot, following a brigadier through his besieged Calais garrison then zooming out through the bombed-out roof of the building and up into the sky until we’re looking down on German bombers passing by. Take that, Michael Bay’s Pearl Harbor!The film has its subtler moments, too. There are times when Churchill’s alienation is almost abstracted visually. He is often boxed into a frame within the frame – inside an elevator, for example, ascending through expanses of blackness. Even the lighting is considered: every frame is lit by a combination of warm sepia glows and cold, bright shafts of light – expressing, perhaps, a history composed equally of nostalgic memory and hard fact? In keeping with the times, Darkest Hour also brings the viewpoints of two important women into this male-dominated affair: Churchill’s wife, Clemmie, played with clipped efficiency by Kristin Scott Thomas, and his startled deer of a new secretary, played by Lily James. The latter, in particular, undercuts the big politics with human emotion in a few critical interventions.But the primary reason Darkest Hour deserves consideration is its central performance. Allegedly the actor is Gary Oldman, but so complete is his disappearance into the role, you instantly forget it’s him. This is not merely a feat of prosthetics and makeup (though a bit of Academy love in the technical departments would be merited), nor is it mere caricature or impersonation; this is acting, dear boy! And if the sign of a great Oscar movie is a great acting turn, Darkest Hour can have few rivals this year. Oldman gives us the full Churchill, which is to say, he’s all over the dial – one moment witty and merry, the next drunkenly rebarbative, or stupefied by self-doubt, or tenderly affectionate. If he doesn’t win best actor, it will be a shock.Admittedly, Darkest Hour has to fabricate a mawkish Churchill-takes-the-tube scene to pivot into the final act. And admittedly, the film ends on a note of unashamed, sentimental jingoism, in another roomful of posh, middle-aged white guys (with the four years of war to come reduced to a mere footnote). But if Darkest Hour is about anything (cue orchestra), it is about courage. The courage Churchill finds in himself and the courage he musters in the British people (orchestra at full tilt once more). Courage to go against the grain, courage to honour one’s beliefs, courage to change one’s mind, and change the world. It will be a brave Academy voter who elects the Darkest Hour, but upon such courage (puffs cigar for effect), wars are won!