In the first of a series ahead of the 2018 Oscars, Peter Bradshaw champions Jordan Peele’s brilliantly scary satire
Peter Bradshaw

Mon 19 Feb 2018 08.00 EST


Last modified on Tue 20 Feb 2018 08.17 EST

The nomination of Jordan Peele’s Get Out for best picture, a category that sadly often only rewards middlebrow-prestigious classiness, shouldn’t blind us to the fact that it is a brilliant scary movie: a horror suspense-thriller with hilarious moments. This is a cracking genre entertainment in the style of Ira Levin, and its piercingly relevant political satire – the basis on which it has been admitted to the 2018 Oscar club – needn’t deflect the impact of its sheer enjoyability. There are some great films on this year’s best picture list, but Get Out is the most purely subversive and raucously entertaining. It’s a film to make you wonder how or why John Carpenter’s Halloween never got a nomination.A nasty ambiguity dangles silently from the title. Get Out … you’re not welcome here? Or Get Out … while you still can? Is it about the exclusion of black Americans from white privilege? Or is it about an insidious welcome, a spurious inclusion, a learned pantomime of liberal friendliness, whose purpose is to disarm and defang grievance and relegitimise white class supremacy for the 21st century? Of course, it’s both. And Peele avails himself of the satirist’s prerogative: to be provocative, bold and even unfair; to stab at those well-meaning people whose anti-racism consists partly in a conviction that race prejudice is a thing of the past.British actor Daniel Kaluuya plays Chris (resonantly surnamed Washington), a young black American making a name for himself as a photographer. For a few months, he’s been dating a beautiful white girl, Rose, played by Allison Williams, who suggests they go together on a weekend trip to her palatial family home in the country to meet her super-progressive and relaxed parents. They are Dean and Missy, superbly played by Bradley Whitford and Catherine Keener: he’s a retired doctor and she’s a psychiatrist and hypnotherapist. With excruciating earnestness, Dean shows Chris the artworks he got from Bali and tells him he would have voted Obama a third time if he could. When all their country-club friends show up for a big family gathering that same weekend, one of the crusty old guests asks Chris if he plays golf and solemnly says how much he admires Tiger Woods.But there’s something very weird going on. Rose’s parents have black servants who display unnervingly polite smiles (quietly brilliant performances from Betty Gabriel and Marcus Henderson) and make the house look like some sort of plantation. Over dinner, Rose’s kid brother Jeremy (Caleb Landry Jones) makes boorish comments about Chris’s physical endowments as a black man. Then Missy, ostensibly to cure Chris’s smoking, begins to put him in a mild state of hypnosis. Meanwhile, back at home, Chris’s best friend, Rod, is deeply suspicious about what his buddy is getting into: a great performance from comic LilRel Howery.Get Out is a movie that challenges a single, important idea: progress. Surely we have made real progress since the days of, say, Guess Who’s Coming to Dinner, the classic 1967 film with Sidney Poitier and Spencer Tracy? And when Barack Obama got elected in 2008, and then re-elected in 2012, surely the right-thinking people across the globe could be content that something important had happened, and real progress had been achieved? Well, Get Out has a surprise in store for Chris, and the 2016 presidential election had an awful surprise in store for everyone else: the gruesome twist ending of post-Obama America, that nonexistent third term that Dean piously invoked.Get Out is a movie to put alongside Paul Beatty’s novel The Sellout or Kevin Willmott’s film CSA. It’s also one of the vanishingly rare movies with interracial leads, and a mainstream feature film bold enough, tactless enough, irresponsible enough to invoke race outside the solemn confines of documentary. But a documentary is also what it reminded me of: Ava DuVernay’s 13th was a film that sought to open people’s eyes to the fact that the persistence of racism after the American civil war isn’t simply a kind of cloudy emotional or cultural residue, but part of the Jim Crow settlement. It was part of what induced the South to accept defeat.You could say Get Out runs on a rocket fuel of defeatism and pessimism, but perhaps no more so than Jonathan Swift and his blisteringly satirical A Modest Proposal (in which he urges, with heavy irony, the Irish to improve their economic prospects by selling their children for food). The point is that Get Out takes that pessimism and converts it into defiance – and laughs.