
Martha Kelner

Wed 21 Feb 2018 12.36 EST

Bradley Wiggins has warned young cyclists to steer clear of Team Sky, claiming his former employers will “ruin” them.The 2012 Tour de France winner was speaking at the announcement of a new roster of riders for Team Wiggins, the under-23 team he has set up. He introduced his new signing Tom Piddock and when asked if he had any advice for his young charge, the 37-year-old made a stinging assessment of his former team. “Don’t go to Sky in the future, steer clear of them,” he said. “Go somewhere else because they’ll ruin you.”Wiggins was speaking against the backdrop of mounting pressure on Team Sky to submit their appeal to a drugs test Chris Froome failed at last year’s Vuelta a España. Froome had double the permitted amount of the asthma drug salbutamol in a urine sample and is now trying to prove there is a legitimate physiological explanation for the adverse finding.While Wiggins declined to comment on Froome’s specific case he believes Team Sky’s dominance, winning five of the last six Tour de France titles, and a building portfolio of controversy have led to a “negative” atmosphere in the sport.When asked to elaborate on the comments, Wiggins added: “They are not barbed jokes or digs, that’s the reality of the sport at the moment. I saw the reports only last week from [the Ruta del Sol in] Andalusia, or wherever it was, and they are the best team in the world. How many races did they win last week? And there’s a lot of talk about them at the moment and there’s a lot of negative talk as well, which is the reality.”The five-time Olympic champion Wiggins faced his own UK anti-doping agency inquiry after allegations that he broke the rules in 2011 while with Team Sky. The investigation was dropped and Ukad said it had faced barriers in trying to establish what was contained inside a jiffy bag package delivered to Wiggins at the Critérium de Dauphiné in 2011. Both Wiggins and Team Sky maintain it was a legal decongestant not a banned corticosteroid, as had been alleged.After the investigation concluded in November, Wiggins threatened to sue Ukad for what he described as a “malicious witch hunt” and on Tuesday he promised: “I’m going to have my say on that very soon.”Wiggins retired from professional cycling in 2016 and has since embarked on a challenge to switch to rowing. He also wants to establish a women’s equivalent to Team Wiggins. He suggested cycling would benefit from a salary cap to lower barriers to entry, again making a barbed reference to Team Sky. “Something has got to happen,” he said. “Sky are running away with it. With the office blocks they bring with them [to races], it’s difficult to compete, isn’t it? Whether that helps performance or not, I don’t know. Going forward something has to change to even it out a bit.”Mark Cavendish pulled out of the Abu Dhabi Tour after suffering concussion and whiplash in a fall before the race’s first stage. Cavendish’s team, Dimension Data said the incident occurred when “the race director’s car slowed suddenly as it led the peloton out of Madinat Zayed”. The 32-year-old went on to start the race, but pulled out after five kilometres.