United may be favourites in the Champions League last 16 but Sevilla have players who can hurt them
Sid Lowe in Seville

Wed 21 Feb 2018 05.03 EST


Last modified on Wed 21 Feb 2018 07.41 EST

It’s Jesús Navas, but not as we know him. The former Manchester City winger has been converted to right-back and, although he is diligent, that does occasionally double the threat in attack, from where he remains a regular source of crosses. “He has played there a few times and he is doing it perfectly,” said Sergio Escudero, the full back on the other side. “It’s not his natural position but he is performing to a great level.”Vincenzo Montella confirmed that Banega, like Ángel Correa, had completed a full training session and, after missing two league games, will be available – which is fundamental for Sevilla. No player has completed more Champions League passes and his 711 (to go with more than a thousand in La Liga) puts him way ahead of the rest. When he’s good, he’s very, very good, a midfielder of touch and vision, at the heart of everything Sevilla do.Luis Muriel has not started a Champions League game for Sevilla this season but he should start this one. He has been a key beneficiary of the arrival of Montella, who has put faith in the centre-forward despite a disappointing start to the season. “Muriel has improved enormously,” the manager says. “He has sacrificed himself and worked for the team. He has quality technique and a good physique and I think he can get even better.”Quick, intelligent, disciplined, reliable, and reasonably two-footed, dangerous when he comes inside to shoot from around the edge of the area and able to deliver accurately into the area as well as adept at arriving at the far post. Sarabia has more La Liga assists than any other Sevilla player, but only one in Europe.Hauled off at half-time against Liverpool with the team 3-0 down, having confronted the then manager Eduardo Berizzo, N’Zonzi was not on the pitch for the second-half comeback at the Pizjuán and looked to be on his way out of the club. Montella’s arrival gave him a second chance and he is back in the deep midfield role, passing with calm precision.