Plus: more players who made a sharp exit, revisiting some finals played in extreme weather and a 26-club journeyman. Mail us your questions and answers or tweet @TheKnowledge_GU
Guardian sport

Wed 21 Feb 2018 05.10 EST


Last modified on Wed 21 Feb 2018 09.12 EST

“Has there ever been a longer acrostic spelled out in a table than the oft-recurring ‘Table’ from the Premier League this season, or ‘Lawns’ from League Two?” asks Marco Jackson.“After skimming through all 33,000 end-of-day league tables in the history of English league football and cross-referencing them against the 123,000 most common English words, by my reckoning there have been somewhere in the region of 450 five-letter words, 38 six-letter words and one seven-letter word hidden in league tables across all divisions since 1888,” writes uber-statto James Clarke.“Personal highlights from the five-letter words are:Abyss First appearing a couple of games before the end of the 2012-13 season in League Two, and making it into the end of season table. It also popped up in Division Three on 1 September 1972Balls Division One, 18 September 1957Camel Topping the Premier League table at the end of 2004-05, having been in place for most of the second half of that seasonDemon Division Three on 19 and 20 January 1982Wales Division One, 20 October 1979“The most notable of the six letter words is Tmesis, which is the longest word to make it into an end of season table for the Premier League season 1993-94 but it only snuck in for the first time on the penultimate day of the season. Again, who knew that was a word? It means: ‘the separation of parts of a compound word by an intervening word or words, used mainly in informal speech for emphasis (eg can’t find it any-blooming-where).” The only seven-letter word I can find is dubious for a couple of reasons: Stellas. Me neither. Maybe it could be used as a proper noun to mean some reassuringly expensive beer, or maybe at a high-society party if Paul McCartney’s daughter and the MP for Walthamstow were to arrive together (‘The Stellas are here!’), although according to the dictionary it is a word directly inherited from latin which means stars. Even more dubiously the correct plural should be stellae but we English are so bad at irregular plurals so we apparently allowed stellas as a valid alternative. It appeared in the Division One table on 24 August 1966. Which is the other reason for being dubious – so early in the season Sunderland and Tottenham had identical records, so were only ordered alphabetically and were technically tied at that point.”And Eddie McCullagh has spotted a seven-letter contender in La Liga as of 14 February. “You could spell Glareal from 11th down to 17th. Glareal is an adjective meaning growing on dry and exposed land.”A shout also to reader David Kane, who offers this thread:"BLOKES" - 2001/02 Division 2 on 27th January 2001:15. Bristol Rvs 1916. Lincoln 1817. Oxford 1818. Kidderminster 1719. Exeter 1720. Swansea 16“I can’t believe in your list of ‘players who left clubs very quickly’ at the top of the Knowledge there was no discussion of Dietmar Hamann’s Liverpool-Bolton-Man City move. Having signed a pre-contract agreement to move to Bolton when his Liverpool contract expired, he then had his head turned by Manchester City and so officially was a player at all three clubs on the same day. That must surely be the shortest tenure at a club,” writes Stephen Brown.Matthew Rudd adds David Livermore to the list of rapid club-hoppers. He joined Leeds for £250,000 on 21 July 2006 from Millwall before signing for Hull for the same fee on 2 August 2006. “Leeds had wanted Kevin Nicholls from Luton, but had been rebuffed, so they signed Livermore instead. However, Luton then had a volte face, and Nicholls went to Leeds five days after Livermore, making their other new midfielder surplus to requirements after the ink had barely dried.” David Williams suggests Paul Holsgrove, “who Brighton signed on a free from Stoke in summer 1998. Hibernian then paid Brighton £100,000 for him 39 days later, without him ever playing for the first team.”Neven Andjelic points us in the direction of the elder Laudrup brother. “Michael Laudrup might be above them all. He signed for Celik in Bosnia-Herzegovina for some 48 hours in the hope of avoiding paying taxes on his move from Japan to Ajax in 96-97. Imagine a list of clubs that read: Barcelona, Real, Juventus, Ajax, Celik. Celik? In 2016, 15 years after the tax case began, he was allowed to keep his signing-on fee. I am sure Laudrup is champion of short stay. He never played for Celik and, as far as I am aware, he never visited this Bosnian city.”Last week’s column looked at finals played in extreme weather conditions. There are more …“I give you the 1987 World Club Cup final,” writes Steve Guy. “Porto v Peñarol in Tokyo, played in horrendous snow.” It went all the way to extra-time as well, Porto prevailing 2-1 after Rabah Madjer’s winner.Ross Taylor offers an update from a 2001 piece:“While reading through the very earliest issues of The Knowledge, the third ever article referenced the possibility of the then-23-year-old Stuart Elliott, potentially playing for more clubs than John Burridge’s 26. I am pleased to inform you that, as of 2014, he is now at his 26th club, having played for Newcastle, Hull, Swindon, Gillingham, Hartlepool, Wrexham, Bournemouth, Stockport County, Darlington, Plymouth, Carlisle, Durham City, Scarborough, Exeter, Merthyr Tydfil, Halifax Town, Harrogate Town, Harrow Borough, Waltham Forest, Gateshead, Northwich Victoria, York City, Grays Athletic, Durham City (again), Bedlington Terriers, Newcastle Benfield and Ashington. However, what definitely caught my eye was how many of his old teams no longer exist: I count four that went under and were reformed – Darlington (now Darlington FC again), Scarborough (now Scarborough Athletic), Merthyr Tydfil (now Merthyr Town), and Halifax Town (now FC Halifax Town).”“We all know Neymar’s transfer to PSG was the most expensive ever, but what is the highest numerical figure paid for a player?” asks Will Hughes. “Neymar’s transfer converted into Zimbabwean dollars doesn’t count. The transfer must have been paid for in that currency, and its value at the time.”“I noticed that Luis Figo made his league debut for Sporting Lisbon, replacing Marlon Brandão. Are there any other footballers with the same/similar name as a film star, or ideally an Oscar-winner?” muses Phil Taylor.Is there any footballing links to the Winter Olympics that we should know about. Competitors in both, family links, etc.Moussa Dembele has 10.2% of the game's possession against Juventus. What's the highest amount a single player has had?