Amy, 36, chartered surveyor, meets Chris, 28, marketing manager

Sat 10 Feb 2018 00.59 EST

What were you hoping for?Love at first sight. Failing that, good chat.First impressions?Somehow we immediately got talking about football, so we had common ground.What did you talk about?Films, travel, being picky eaters, queueing for restaurants, architecture.Any awkward moments?I told him the amazing dessert seemed to be made of goat’s cheese. Chris doesn’t eat cheese.Good table manners?Aside from taking photos of the meal for Instagram, yes.Best thing about Chris?He was genuinely easy to talk to, and a good guy.Would you introduce him to your friends? Sure.Describe Chris in three wordsEngaging, easy-going, ambitious.What do you think he made of you?Probably that I talked too much.Did you go on somewhere?No. It was 11pm on a Monday.And… did you kiss?No.If you could change one thing about the evening, what would it be?I can’t think of a thing.Marks out of 10?8.Would you meet again?I wouldn’t say no.What were you hoping for?A fun night out with an interesting person.First impressions? Stylish and confident.What did you talk about? Places we’ve travelled, architecture, the food we don’t like.Any awkward moments?I accidentally ate goat’s cheese thinking it was ice-cream. I don’t like cheese in any form.Good table manners? Superb.Best thing about Amy? Extremely interesting, passionate and so easy to talk to.Would you introduce her to your friends? I don’t see why not.Describe Amy in three wordsGenuine, passionate, sophisticated.What do you think she made of you? Hopefully my five-year-old’s taste in food wasn’t too embarrassing to be around.Did you go on somewhere? Nope – got the tube home.And… did you kiss? No.If you could change one thing about the evening, what would it be? Less goat’s cheese, more ice-cream.Marks out of 10? 8.Would you meet again? Definitely – but only as friends.• Amy and Chris ate at Aquavit, London SW1. Fancy a blind date? Email blind.date@theguardian.com. If you’re looking to meet someone like-minded, visit soulmates.theguardian.com