Will it be love for national parks campaigner Andy, 24, and charity worker Liam, 26?

Sat 3 Feb 2018 01.00 EST

What were you hoping for?Justin Timberlake pre-Trolls. Failing that, someone good-looking and confident.First impressions? It was you! Turns out we had been chatting before.What did you talk about? Everything from national parks to politics to his work at the Terrence Higgins Trust.Any awkward moments? We both accidentally walked into the kitchen trying to find the bathroom.Good table manners? Excellent. He made great menu choices.Best thing about Liam? Good conversationalist and thoroughly decent chap.Would you introduce him to your friends? Yes, they’d get on. We already have mutual friends.Describe Liam in three words Confident, eloquent, self-assured.What do you think he made of you? I made the mistake of talking at him a lot, so he probably thinks I’m a bit full-on.Did you go on somewhere? I did ask. As we both live on the Northern line, we shared a tube journey.And… did you kiss? No, just a friendly hug.If you could change one thing about the evening, what would it be? It was a great date, Liam is really interesting and thoughtful. But I think there was a lack of spark, which was a shame.Marks out of 10? 7.5.Would you meet again? Yes, as friends. We swapped numbers and he’s welcome to join the Tooting pub quiz.What were you hoping for? Funny anecdotes, and someone who could decipher my Scottish accent.First impressions? Full of confidence.What did you talk about? Coming from small towns and moving to London, our shared fanboy enthusiasm for Emily Thornberry, my BBC gameshow experience and his tweets from Cher.Any awkward moments? Andy pointed out fluff on my face from my new scarf.Good table manners? Flawless. He even let me choose the wine.Best thing about Andy? His passion for life. Nothing seems to faze him.Would you introduce him to your friends? Absolutely.Describe Andy in three words Confident, passionate, lively.What do you think he made of you? He said I’d make a good TV presenter, so hopefully he thought I was confident.Did you go on somewhere? As it was a school night, I had to decline a drink elsewhere.And… did you kiss? A quick hug.If you could change one thing about the evening, what would it be? Let him choose the wine.Marks out of 10? 7.5.Would you meet again? As a friend. He volunteers at London zoo and I hope to see him in action! • Andy and Liam ate at Granary Square Brasserie, London N1.Fancy a blind date? Email blind.date@theguardian.com. If you’re looking to meet someone like-minded, visit soulmates.theguardian.com