  In just a few hours, audiences will be excitedly lining up to see a brand new Star Wars film. That alone is worthy of celebration, but as I detailed earlier in the week, it also happens to be an excellent movie. Star Wars: The Last Jedi is a triumph, taking the franchise in bold new directions. With that in mind, why not go back and rank the series once again? That's what I'm doing today, since the last time this was tackled, none of the new installments had come out. Now, you can see a full on layout of ever episode and story that has come from <pname>George Lucas</pname>' initial lark. Enjoy this list, since I know I sure did.  Here is how I would rank the films in the Star Wars franchise so far, and keep in mind…this is once again just how I see things. Here we go:  3. Star Wars: The Last Jedi (Episode VIII) – I just wrote about this newest installment a few days ago, so it's fresh in mind mind. Subsequent viewings may very well move this one up a notch or two. To reiterate: In some ways, this is the best Star Wars has to offer. <pname>Johnson</pname> crafts something different, full of surprises, yet also chock full of homages. Nearly a half dozen moments at the press screening I attended last night resulted in cheers and/or standing ovations. That's rare too, in case you were wondering. Without spoiling anything, this is also the best turn for <pname>Hamill</pname> as Luke Skywalker to date. One other thing I will mention is that the movie is dedicated to <pname>Fisher</pname>, and how they phrase that over the end credits will put a lump in your throat. The less said about what happens, the better, but just know that it's great.  2. The Empire Strikes Back (Episode V) – Is this technically the best film of the bunch? Yes. So why isn't it in the top spot? I'll explain more below, but this is another tie, so it's more 1B than 2. It's nearly as iconic as Episode IV, especially with the introduction of Yoda and the big reveal during the climax. It's an absolute classic, for sure, something that will undoubtedly stand the test of time. If you asked me again next week, who knows, I might swap these two around, but for now…this is where I put Episode VI.  1. Star Wars (Episode IV: A New Hope) – The one that started it all gets the top spot in a tight race, just due to how much of an impact it had on me as a young boy. The first time you see Luke Skywalker, Obi-Wan Kenobi, Princess Leia, Han Solo, Chewbacca, and company on their adventure, it changes you. It's hard to explain, really, but this is a special film. We all have our thoughts on whether A New Hope or The Empire Strikes Back is superior, and while the latter is probably the better movie, the former is the more important and more special one…  Be sure to check out Star Wars: The Last Jedi, in theaters everywhere this weekend!