  <pname>Dominic Fifield</pname>  Wed 21 Feb 2018 06.21 EST   Last modified on Wed 21 Feb 2018 12.32 EST  <pname>Antonio Conte</pname> has admitted he would need to settle his differences with the Chelsea board if he is to see out the final year of his contract but would expect “several different scenarios” to open up at rival clubs should he depart in the summer.<pname>Conte</pname> masterminded an impressive display in Tuesday's Champions League last-16 draw against Barcelona, when Chelsea were the more threatening side despite the visitors' monopoly on possession.The Chelsea manager has seemed calmer over recent weeks after months of stuttering results and (largely recruitment-based) disputes behind the scenes, and he was back to his firebrand best on the touchline.He described the performance as “almost the perfect game” but talk quickly drifted back to the 48-year-old's future when he was interviewed by the Italian media. “In 14 years, Chelsea have changed coach 10 times, so they do have a tendency to chop and change here,” he told Mediaset Premium. “The media plays on this when the results are negative and they were already talking about me getting sacked after we lost the first game of the season to Burnley.“But it's no problem for me. In fact, I really like pressure. I just hope it doesn't affect the players. In our line of work, we always have a bag packed. My intention is to remain here but if something were to change, there would be several different scenarios opening up.“It's no problem for me. I have said very clearly I have a contract to 2019 and I intend to respect it but anything can happen in football. I'm happy here but, to move forward with the marriage, everyone needs to be in agreement. All parties must be happy.”The Italian Football Federation has expressed an interest in reappointing <pname>Conte</pname> as Italy's manager, though he is more likely to remain in the club game if as expected, given his tempestuous relationship with the board, he leaves Stamford Bridge early. There could be openings in the summer at Paris Saint-Germain, Real Madrid and both Milan clubs, positions he would surely find tempting.